Rain of Wisdom, Love and Spiritual Power A Guru Yoga of the Three Mañjughoṣas of Tibet, Land of Snow
I and others, from now until we attain the essence of awakening,
Take refuge with fervent and unwavering faith
In these noble gurus, the bodhisattvas of the three families:
Hold us with your compassion, we pray!
To free all beings throughout the universe, especially my own parents,
From the sufferings of the six classes of saṃsāric existence,
And establish them all in supreme and perfect awakening,
I shall practise this profound guru yoga!
oṃ mahāśūnyatā jñāna vajra svabhāva atmako ’haṃ
Dualistic phenomena dissolve into non-referential space.
Out of this emptiness experience, in the sky before me,
Amidst a vast expanse of rays and orbs of pulsating rainbow-coloured light
Appears the root guru in the form of the bodhisattvas of the three families.
In the centre, upon a lion throne and seats of lotus and moon,
Is the Lord of Secrets, Omniscient Longchenpa, 2
Brilliant white with his two hands covering his knees.
He holds the stems of lotuses,
Which support a volume and sword to the right, and vajra and bell to the left.
On his right, upon a white lotus and moon-disc seat,
Is the Mañjughoṣa guru, Sakya Paṇḍita,
Peaceful and smiling, with his hands in the Dharma-teaching mudrā and holding a sword and book.
On his left, upon a multicoloured lotus and moon-disc seat,
Is Lord Avalokiteśvara, noble Lobzang Drakpa,
With his two hands in the gesture of turning the Dharma-wheel and holding nāga -tree stems supporting a sword and book.
All three are elegantly attired in the three Dharma robes.
They sit upright with both legs crossed in the vajra posture,
And are adorned with the insignia and diadems appropriate to their family.
From the three syllables that mark their three centres
Light radiates out to invite all the sources of refuge, which then dissolve into them.
To the noble gurus, universal embodiments of wisdom,
I prostrate in devotion as many times as there are atoms in the universe.
Masses of gifts, including what is owned and unowned,
I offer through the meditative absorption of Samantabhadra.
All misdeeds, obscurations, faults and downfalls accumulated throughout beginningless time,
I do not conceal but  acknowledge and confess with intense sorrow and remorse!
In all the virtues of ordinary beings and the spiritually noble
I rejoice without the slightest trace of jealousy!
To all those who intend to pass into nirvāṇa
I pray: do not pass but remain upon the vajra throne!
All my own and others’ virtuous deeds throughout the three times,
I dedicate to unsurpassed and perfect awakening!
Unique embodiment of all the victorious ones’ wisdom,
Perfect knowledge that merges boundlessly as the sun of Dharma:
Longchen Rabjam, at your feet I pray:
Grant me the attainment of supreme, impartial insight!
You who have the eye of wisdom that sees all that is knowable,
The compassion that brings about the welfare of all beings,
The strength that accomplishes inconceivable enlightened action,
Lama, you who are Mañjuśrī in person, at your feet I pray!
Upon the basis of the golden mountain of Vinaya Dharma,
You mastered enlightened activity as a second Lord of Sages,
Supreme in your understanding of all limitless knowable things—
Lobzang Drakpa, at your feet I pray!
oṃ āḥ guru vimalarasmi sarva siddhi hūṃ 4
oṃ āḥ guru ānandadhvaja sarva siddhi hūṃ 5
oṃ āḥ guru matibhadrakīrti sarva siddhi hūṃ 6
Omniscient lord, holder of the treasury of oceanic secrets,
Glorious Kunga Gyaltsen, Mañjughoṣa in person,
And noble Lobzang Drakpa, Lord of compassion—
To you I pray: grant your blessings and empowerments!
Through this prayer, light streams from the Omniscient One’s heart centre,
And the other two masters dissolve into the heart of this central figure.
From the Oṃ at the guru’s forehead, white light streams out
And dissolves into my crown—through this I obtain the vase empowerment,
Purify physical obscurations and receive the blessings of enlightened body.
I am empowered to meditate on the visualisation stage and reach the eighth bhūmi,
And the auspicious connection to attain nirmāṇakāya fruition is established.
From the Āḥ at the guru’s throat centre, red light streams out
And dissolves into my throat—through this I obtain the secret empowerment,
Purify vocal obscurations and receive the blessings of enlightened speech.
I am empowered to practise subtle energy and tummo and reach the ninth bhūmi,
And the auspicious connection to attain saṃbhogakāya fruition is established.
From the Hūṃ at the guru’s heart centre, blue light streams out
And dissolves into my heart—through this I obtain the knowledge-wisdom empowerment,
Purify mental obscurations and receive the blessings of enlightened mind.
I am empowered to practice the path of the messenger-consort and reach the eleventh bhūmi,
And the auspicious connection to attain dharmakāya fruition is established.
All at once, rays of light stream out from the guru’s three centres
And dissolve into my own three places—through this I obtain the word empowerment,
Purify obscurations of the ālaya and receive the blessings of primordial wisdom.
I am empowered to practise the vajra wave and reach the fruitional stage,
And the auspicious connection to attain the svabhāvikakāya is established.
Finally, the guru becomes a mass of five-coloured rays of light,
Which dissolves into me, passing directly from my crown
Down to my heart, and in that very instant
I behold the face of dharmakāya, luminosity beyond the ordinary mind.
May I perfect the practice of the profound yoga
Of the outer guru of conventional appearances,
The inner guru of the channels, energies and essences,
And the secret guru of the clear light of awareness-emptiness!