The Lineage Prayer for the Natural Liberation of Grasping (Dzinpa Rangdrol)
Samantabhadra and Samantabhadrā in union, Teacher of Immutable Light, 2
Glorious and powerful, blood-drinking Youthful Hero, 3
Stainless Lord of Secrets [Vajrapāṇi], Garab Dorjé, the Lake-Born Lord,
And Great Bliss Mandāravā—to you I pray.
Rakṣita, who perfected the yogic observances of union and liberation,
Lord Dampa, who is the sole forefather of a hundred adepts,
Labdrön, who is the lady of the ḍākinīs and the queen of space—
Lineages of Pacification and Severance, to you I pray.
Dancing illusory display of Padmasambhava of Oḍḍiyāna and Vimalamitra,
Lord who brought forth the foundational profound and secret teachings,
Master of the magnificent secret treasury of the ḍākinīs—
The great treasure-revealer, Jalü Dorjé, to you I pray.
Vajravārāhī in the blissful realm of Khecara
And Mandāravā Flower in Cāmaradvīpa,
You came once again in the guise of a human for the benefit of the teachings and beings;
Discovering the attainments of the deities, you gained the two accomplishments—
Great Mother and supreme ḍākinī [Losel Drölma], 4 to you I pray.
Supreme successor of a hundred adepts with mastery over all appearing existence;
Yeshé Dorjé’s three secrets, blessings, lineage, and treasuries—
Master of them all, a son of enlightened body, speech, and mind,
Dechen Rigpai Reltri, 5 —to you I pray.
In the state where all apparent, mind-made phenomena of this life are illusory,
You recognized their dream-like nature and were free from hope and doubt,
Beyond all biased distinctions between self and other—protector of beings,
Supreme refuge, Dechen Özer, 6 to you I pray.
Through the vast, heavenly path of stainless knowledge,
You blaze brilliantly with the intense light of love and compassion,
And dispel the dense darkness of transmigrating beings
Tubten Chökyi Dorjé 7 —to you I pray.
Although you are experientially the same as the victorious ones in renunciation and realization,
In your compassionate care for disciples, you are actually superior to the buddhas—
Incomparably gracious and supreme lamp of the teachings,
Glorious protector, supreme guru, to you I pray.
Great [blessing] waves from the extensive ocean of the profound awakening mind,
The four rivers of instructions concerning maturation and liberation
Pervade all the realms containing disciples endowed with good fortune—
Assemblies of lineage gurus, to you I pray.
Embodiment of all buddhas, dharmakāya guru,
Inseparable from the single, gracious Great Mother,
I fervently pray to you from the depths of my heart!
Bless me with victory over the four māras, creators of delusional perception and pride!
Bless me to realize the unborn dharmakāya!