The Prayer of the Tenth Days in Guru Rinpoche’s Life Story entitled ‘The Nucleus of Blessings’
oṃ āḥ hūṃ vajra guru padma siddhi hūṃ
Emanation of the enlightened body of Buddha Amitābha,
Light of the enlightened speech of Lord Avalokiteśvara, tamer of beings,
Holder of the secrets of the enlightened mind of all bodhisattvas,
Guru Rinpoche, to you we pray.
Primordially, naturally arising ‘Lord of Great Bliss’,
All pervasive sovereign of saṃsāra and nirvāṇa, Samantabhadra, ‘Embodiment of All Secrets’,
And ‘Powerful Skull Mālā’, your saṃbhogakāya form
Who radiates inconceivable emanations, to you we pray.
On the twelve great festivals, the tenth days of the waxing moon,
Your enlightened forms purify the twelve links of dependent origination into their true nature.
With the twelve branches of the teachings of Buddha, they turn the Wheel of Dharma,
And through the twelve aspects of the meaning of the truths, 1 they magnify the wisdom of compassion.
The number of your manifestations is famed as the twelve wonders,
Who display twelve great and extraordinary acts
And grant us twelve siddhis, according to our share.
Remembering your life-story, we pray:
On the tenth day of the monkey month, on the Dhanakośa lake,
In the heart of a wondrous, naturally appearing lotus you are born,
And turn the wheel of Dharma for the island dākinīs—
Guru Tsokyé Dorje, to you we  pray.
Grant your blessing so that all obstructions from illness and döns, and all negative circumstances and obstacles are pacified,
Long life, merit and splendour increase, experiences, realization and clairvoyance arise,
And we are reborn on the Mountain of Glory to look upon your face, Guru, hear your teaching
And become the son or daughter of your heart.
On the tenth day of the tiger month, you arrive at the palace in Uḍḍiyāna,
And are adopted by Indrabhūti as his crown prince.
Taking Prabhāvatī as your wife, you rule as a universal monarch—
Guru Pema Gyalpo, to you we pray.
Grant your blessing so that our brilliance, charisma and strength increase, epidemics and turmoil in the elements are pacified,
The five senses become pliable, and happiness, peace of mind and confidence quickly arise,
We gather under our power the prāṇa-mind of humans and non-humans,
And all our aspirations are fulfilled, just as we desire.
On the tenth day of the hare month, driven by circumstances and by signs,
You relinquish the kingdom for the Chilly Grove charnel ground.
There, through your yogic disciplines of union and liberation, you make every connection of the highest meaning—
Śāntarakṣita, to you we pray.
Grant your blessing so that our power, position and wealth increase, all human beings are attracted,
All living things are magnetized, earth lords obey us like servants,
We see good dreams and auspicious signs,
And burst open the treasure of siddhis, ordinary and supreme.
On the tenth day of the dragon month, you are ordained by Ānanda,
And with countless scholars and adepts who have achieved the ultimate in knowledge,
You attain consummate mastery over all the sūtras and tantras,
And are famed as both Shakya Senge and Loden Choksé —at your feet we pray.
Grant your blessing so that the lords of death, planetary demons and the eight classes who bring harm all are pacified,
Pure discipline and the three higher trainings are perfected,
And our knowledge of every field of learning, and of all the sūtras and tantras,
Grows to become limitless.
On the tenth day of the snake month, the king of Zahor
Burns you in a fire, which you transform into a lake, emerging resplendent upon the heart of a lotus blossom.
Relying on Princess Mandāravā as consort, you attain the vajra body—
Immortal Lotus-born, to you we pray.
Grant your blessing so that all harm is eliminated from ill-omened planets and stars, from enemies and thieves,
When at home or abroad, auspiciousness, prosperity and well-being increase,
Well-intentioned guardians act always as our allies and support,
And all our wishes are spontaneously fulfilled.
On the tenth day of the horse month, when the malicious ministers of Uḍḍiyāna
Burn you alive, you display the amazing miracle of remaining unscathed,
And, by teaching the Kadü Chökyi Gyatso, lead the king and his entourage to enlightenment—
Padma Vajra Tsal, to you we pray,
Grant your blessing so that all harm from māras, asuras, vicious earth lords and nāgas is completely eliminated,
And they obey the instructions they are given,
Dharmapālas and guardians carry out all our commands,
And patron gods afford their protection.
On the tenth day of the sheep month, in India’s southern reaches,
You grind to dust the tīrthikas , along with their gods and guardians,
And hoist aloft the victory banner of Buddha’s teaching—
Mighty Senge Dradok, to you we pray.
Grant your blessing so that all obstacles are pacified, longevity, prosperity and perfect qualities are increased,
We gain control over all perceptions, utterly vanquish all opponents,
We are victorious over the four maras, and actualize the benefits of generosity
Towards all beings in the three worlds.
On the tenth day of the bird month, the tīrthikas of Zangling,
Fling you into the river Ganges, but you dance in the sky, and reverse the current.
When the whole land is in peril, and they beg you for refuge and protection, you bring them all within the Dharma—
Guru Khanding Tsal, to you we pray.
Grant your blessing so that all chronic and immune system diseases are healed, our helpers grow in number, and our wishes are fulfilled,
Food and resources of every kind increase, as well as everything we need,
Our mind is peaceful, our speech blazes with power,
And our samādhi meditation becomes sublime and supreme.
On the tenth day of the dog month, the tīrthikas give you poison,
Unharmed, you transform it into nectar, and shine in splendour.
They and all their followers are inspired with faith and enter the teaching of Buddha—
Guru of Great Bliss, Nyima Özer, to you we pray.
Grant your blessing so that obstacles of the year, month, day and time as well as ill omens are pacified,
All obstacles in the way of the Dharma and liberation are dispelled,
Any decline in our personal power and lungta is repaired
And we are victorious in every direction.
On the tenth day of the pig month, the gods and demons of Nepal
Are subjugated by Vajrakīla, and then through accomplishing Yangdak
You attain the vidyādhara stage of supreme mahāmudrā—
Dorje Tötreng Tsal, to you we pray.
Grant your blessing so that all illnesses and harm caused by yamas, mamos and jungpos,
Sudden accidents, and untimely death all are eliminated,
We are freed from dangerous curses, gods and demons obey whatever their commands,
And our own bodies become indestructible as vajra.
On the tenth day of the rat month, you tame the gods and spirits of Tibet,
You build Samyé to perfection, and light the flame of the sacred Dharma,
You ripen and liberate your fortunate disciples, the king and subjects—
Padmasambhava, to you we pray.
Grant your blessing so that idle chatter, harsh words, lies and slander,
Impairments of the śrāvaka’ vinaya discipline and bodhisattva precepts,
Breakages of samaya vows and the like, wrongdoing and downfalls, all are healed,
And our whole being is transformed and purified.
On the tenth day of the ox month, master and disciples confer,
And in the centre and on the borders of the land of snows you conceal millions of terma troves.
With these treasures you safeguard what remains of the teachings, all with your constant kindness—
All-powerful Dorje Drolö, to you we pray.
Grant your blessing so that sudden misfortune, like untimely death, never befalls us,
And as soon as we transfer to the next life, we are born in the pure realm of Great Bliss,
And in the paradise of Lotus Light, in your very presence, Guru,
And become a source of limitless benefit to living beings.
On every tenth day, when we practise and we pray to you,
To receive the blessing brought by each of your wondrous acts,
Then eliminate everything undesirable, and bring about every kind of goodness, now and in the time to come,
And so make your vajra speech truly undeceiving.
On every tenth day, you promised you would come to Tibet,
And when I remember your words, then with single-minded devotion,
From my heart I pray, with passionate yearning and longing:
Never forsake us your followers, never abandon us, you with all your compassion!
The people of Tibet, tormented by the degeneration of the dregs of time,
Have no hope left—none at all, lord, save for you.
So, now the time has come to keep that pledge made long ago,
Do not let the gaze of your all-pervading wisdom ever turn away,
Let us enjoy worldly happiness and practise virtue,
Let all our aspirations that are in keeping with the Dharma be fulfilled just as we desire,
Let us travel the extraordinary vajra path without difficulty of any kind,
Let us all be liberated together, we pray, in the primordial expanse!