The Sealed Quintessence The Innermost Secret Guru Practice of the Heart-Essence of the Vast Expanse 1. Taking Refuge 2. Generating the Mind Set Upon Awakening 3. Setting the Boundary 4. Descent of Blessings and Consecrating the Offerings 5. Generating the Maṇḍala 6. Invitation 7. Symbolic Homage 8. Offering 9. Absolute Praise 10. Mantra Visualization
Homage to the most excellent guru! 1
Hūṃ. While experiencing a state beyond fixation,
I take refuge in the ultimate guru of my own awareness,
Whose essence, nature and compassionate energy
Are spontaneously complete as the great three kāyas.
Hoḥ. In the pristine state, naturally radiant and unconstrained,
There are neither buddhas nor sentient beings,
Neither existence nor non-existence—
Within this great natural liberation, I generate bodhicitta.
Hrīḥ. In the primordial non-duality of saṃsāra and nirvāṇa,
Even the names of obstructive forces and obstacles do not exist.
From within the state of the illusory net of luminosity,
I set the boundary for thoughts and habitual tendencies.
jñāna vajra rakṣa hūṃ
Hūṃ. Out of the all-pervading space of emptiness, compassion’s energy
Arises like a rainbow in the sky.
All the offering substances of the maṇḍala
Are consecrated from within great natural liberation.
jñāna vajra samaya peṃ peṃ
oṃ āḥ hūṃ
Hūṃ. Within empty awareness the all-encompassing space of reality is directly realized,
And with perfect remembrance the experience of the kāyas increases.
Awareness reaching full measure is the ultimate deity,
And the exhaustion of phenomena is the unfabricated, vast expanse of Longchenpa.
He smiles peacefully, wears the costume of a paṇḍita,
And displays the mudrā of resting in the nature of mind.
Appearing yet empty,
All the pure realms of the three kāyas are complete within him.
His three places are marked by the three syllables,
From which rays of light radiate
To invite all the bliss-gone ones of the three times, the Three Roots,
The vidyādharas and oceans of ḍākinīs,
Who dissolve indivisibly.
Hūṃ. From the palace beyond thoughts,
Primordial protector, please come!
From the palace without directions and extremes,
Sugatas of the three times, please come!
From the palace of the transparent and vivid rainbow body,
Glorious gurus, please come!
Bless me so that awareness ripens as the kāyas
And I attain the body of light!
mahāguru jñāna samaya jaḥ jaḥ
Hoḥ. Knowing that the deity and my own mind are indivisible,
To purify grasping at samaya- and wisdom-beings as separate,
I pay homage to the guru beyond thoughts and expressions,
While refraining from any form of adoption or rejection.
atipu hoḥ | pratīccha hoḥ
Hūṃ. The entire display of the objects of the six consciousnesses
I present as clouds of outer, inner and secret offerings.
Through this, may all thoughts involving grasping
Be purified within great luminosity.
oṃ vajra-arghaṃ pādyaṃ puṣpe dhūpe āloke gandhe naivedye śabda | rūpa śabda gandha rāsa sparśa | mahā-pañca rakta baliṅta khāhi | mahāsukha dharmadhātu pūjā hoḥ
Hrīḥ. Within the luminous dharmakāya, unfabricated and beyond concepts,
The manifold maṇḍalas of the infinite sections of tantras are perfectly complete.
To the three-kāya guru, beyond meeting and parting,
I offer praise relatively as a mere illusion.
At my heart, within a sphere of five-coloured light,
Is the wisdom being Samantabhadra,
Brilliant blue and seated in the posture of meditative equipoise.
At the centre of a tent-like enclosure within his heart,
Upon a lotus, sun and moon-disk seat,
Is a blue syllable hūṃ,
Surrounded by the life-force mantra of the Vidyādhara Assembly.
Rays of light stream out in the ten directions,
Invoking the compassion of all the bliss-gone buddhas of the three times
And, in particular, the vidyādhara lineage masters
Of the luminous Great Perfection.
The light-rays return and dissolve into me,
Granting me attainments, ordinary and supreme.
oṃ āḥ hūṃ mahāguru jñāna-siddhi hūṃ