Brief Prayer to the Earlier and Later Terma Lineages
Hūṃ! In the north-west of the land of Oḍḍiyāna
In the heart of a lotus flower,
Endowed with the most marvellous attainments,
You are renowned as the ‘Lotus-born’,
Surrounded by many hosts of ḍākinīs.
Following in your footsteps,
I pray to you: Come, inspire me with your blessing!
guru padma siddhi hūṃ
Glorious root guru, precious one,
Dwell on the lotus-seat in the depth of my heart,
Look upon me with the grace of your great compassion,
Grant me the attainments of body, speech and mind!
Emaho! In the pure realm of the dharmadhātu, of natural simplicity,
Within the intrinsic nature of reality, forever unborn, unceasing throughout the whole of time,
You dwell, as the body of great bliss, free from activity, spontaneously perfect,
Your compassion impartial and unbiased, like the sky:
Dharmakāya Lama, to you we pray!
To the Lotus-born Guru of Orgyen, we pray!
In the pure realm of Great Bliss, spontaneously present,
Dwells the embodiment of all sugatas, with the five wisdoms
Of body, speech, mind, qualities, and enlightened action,
Appearing to different beings in all kinds of compassionate forms,
Saṃbhogakāya Lama, to you we pray!
To the Lotus-born Guru of Orgyen, we pray!
Into this pure realm of our world of Endurance,
Out of your great compassion, you have come, to bring benefit to beings,
Skilfully helping them by taming each according to their needs,
Throughout the whole span of past, future, and present,
Nirmāṇakāya Lama, to you we pray!
To the Lotus-born Guru of Orgyen, we pray!
Samantabhadra, Vajrasattva, Garab Dorje, Śrī Siṃha,
Padmākara and the twenty-five disciples—king and subjects,
So, Zur, Nub, the hundred treasure-revealers and all the rest—
Gurus of Kama and Terma, I pray to you.
Body emanation of King Trisong Detsen, born in Lhodrak Tamshul,
From Sinbar and Khoting you revealed the Great Compassionate One, Embodiment of Sugatas
And other treasures of profound Dharma, supreme forefather,
Nyangrel Nyima Özer, master of earlier times, to you I pray!
Following him came the son of the adapt Pangtön
Guru Chöwang, sole treasure of the land of Tibet,
And revealer of eighteen major treasures from Namkhé, Kharchu and elsewhere—
Great master who benefitted all with a connection, to you I pray.
Protector of beings, Pema Wangchen,
Teacher of Nyö, Zhikpo, Mikyö Dorje and the rest—
Successive spiritual heirs and disciples,
Gurus of the lineage, to you I pray.
In the heavenly palace of the dharmadhātu
Dwells the embodiment of all buddhas, past, present and future.
You who have shown me the dharmakāya nature of my mind,
Root guru, at your feet I pray.
I pray that the guru may remain in the finest health.
I pray that the guru’s life may be supremely long.
I pray that the guru’s activity may flourish and spread.
Bless me, that I may never be apart from the guru.
In all my lives, may I never be separated from the perfect guru,
And having benefited fully from the splendour of the Dharma,
May I perfect the qualities of the five paths and ten stages,
And swiftly attain the sublime level of Vajradhara.
Through the power of our praising and praying to you,
In whatever lands we dwell,
May illness, negativity, poverty, and conflict be quelled,
And Dharma and auspiciousness increase and spread.