The Swift Fulfilment of Wishes A Prayer of Aspiration
Namo guru!
Padmākara, universal embodiment of the Three Roots,
One in reality yet diverse in manifestation—the Eight Supreme Emanations,
The five classes of Tötreng, wrathful and dark red in colour,
The twelve primary and forty secondary manifestations, and the rest—
All you wondrous emanations in your hundreds of billions,
Together with the twenty-five disciples, Nub, Nyak and Nyang,
Chöwang, Gödem, Longchenpa, Minling Terchen,
And all the other vidyādharas of the kama and terma lineages,
As well as the wondrous ācāryas who beautifully adorned this world,
All the Kulika Dharma Kings, such as Sucandra,
The brahmin Saraha, crown ornament among a hundred siddhas,
Virūpa, Ḍombi, Lūyipa, Kṛṣṇācārya, Ghaṇṭapāda,
Tilopa, Nāropa, Maitripāda, and the rest,
Together with Jowo Atiśa, Ngok Lekpé Sherab and Dromtönpa, as well as the Three Brothers, 1
Langri Thangpa, Sharawa Yönten Drak and all the other masters of the Kadam lineage,
Drokmi Lotsāwa, Sachen Kunga Nyingpo, Sönam Tsemo,
Drakpa Gyaltsen, the great Sakya Paṇḍita, Chögyal Pakpa, Ngorchen, Tsarchen and Dzongpa, 2
And the all the hosts of lineage-holders of the Sakya teachings,
Mañjughoṣa guru Lobzang Drakpa,
The three heart-sons and the rest—like a chain of golden mountains,
Marpa, Mila, peerless Dakpo,
Rechungpa, Pakmodrupa, and all the learned and accomplished ones
Of the Drikung, Taklung, Drukpa and so on—the beautiful jewelled garland of Kagyü masters,
Butön Rinchen Drup, who was like a second Omniscient One for this age of strife,
Dolpo Sangye, Tāranātha Kunga Nyingpo and the rest—
Great beings, holders of the tantric treasures of Secret Mantra,
And especially Khyentse Wangpo, holder of the Seven Modes of Transmission,
Lodrö Thayé, pioneer of the Five Treasuries,
Loter Wangpo, compiler of the words of Secret Mantra,
Lord Shenpen Thayé, who was Vairotsana in person,
Orgyen Jigme Chökyi Wangpo,
The lion of speech, Mipham Namgyal,
My most gracious teacher, the sublime protector,
And all the deities of the maṇḍalas of the root and lineage gurus,
Hosts of peaceful and wrathful yidams of the four or six classes of tantra,
Ḍākinīs and vīras of the three abodes, dharma guardians,
Wealth deities, treasure keepers, and guardians of the virtuous together with your retinues,
Especially the Lord of Sages, Buddha of Medicine, Akṣobhya,
Vajrasattva, the Close Sons, Tārā,
Sixteen Elders, and the rest—
All you compassionate sources of refuge, turn your wisdom minds toward me,
Look upon me with your wisdom vision of knowledge and care.
I have amassed negative, harmful actions and now experience their effects.
I am bereft of physical and mental wellbeing and suffer the pains of illness.
In the next life, I will confront the sufferings of the lower realms.
Having considered this unfortunate plight of mine,
Please protect me with your hands of loving kindness, I pray.
Let others’ misdeeds and sufferings ripen on me,
And let them enjoy happiness in great abundance.
May all who are connected to me through merely hearing my name
Discover the excellent path that leads to liberation and awakening.
May I not suffer an untimely death but complete my lifespan.
And may all my wishes and intentions be fulfilled.
May I perfect the aspirations of Samantabhadra
And not fall prey to obstacle-making demons.
Directly and indirectly, may I teach with body, speech and mind,
And provide benefit happiness for all sentient beings.
And may there be no impediment as I uphold and transmit
The immaculate ways of the Dharma of the Victorious Ones.
By the truth of the three most rare and precious Jewels,
And the powerful blessings and force of the Three Roots,
May these points of aspiration be fulfilled without obstacle
And the teachings and their holders prosper and flourish!