The Swift Fulfillment of All Wishes (Sampa Nyur Drupma) A Prayer to Master Padmasambhava
Namaḥ sarva-buddha-bodhisattvāya!
O Guru Rinpoche, full of wisdom, love, and power,
All buddhas of past, present, and future are embodied in you:
Come now, visit us from the southwestern isle of Cāmara
And its halls of Lotus Light upon the Mountain of Glory!
Appear now, vividly before us:
You, root and lineage masters arrayed above,
Hosts of peaceful and wrathful deities in the middle,
Dharmapālas and ḍākinīs swirling like a blizzard below.
We present our bodies, wealth, and possessions,
And our virtue and merit of the past, present, and future
As offering clouds sprung forth from the mind,
To completely fill the boundless sky. Let them continuously appear in your presence!
These days, beings in the snowy land of Tibet
Are tasting the ripened fruits of their evil deeds.
They’ve won a human body capable of learning and speech,
And yet are racked by the sufferings of the lower realms.
Like hell beings, they endure heat, cold, and cruel torture.
Like hungry ghosts, they’re afflicted by famine and thirst.
Like animals, they’re slaughtered and enslaved.
Guard them with your swift compassion!
Bless us that the storms of hypocrisy, deception, and fraud
Carried out to undermine others are pacified.
Once you’ve pacified the present turbulence fueled by hatred and desire,
Please bless us that we attain our own freedom and liberty.
Grant your blessings that our leaders rule in accord with the Dharma
And the residents always follow the law of the land.
Grant your blessings that teachings’ upholders live long and healthy lives,
Thus may others’ benefit be effortlessly accomplished.
Grant your blessings that the scholarship of the saṅgha flourishes,
And that all the teachings, of all traditions, spread far and wide.
Grant your blessings that practitioners become adept in samādhi,
Without being swayed by the taint of distractions.
Grant your blessings that timely rain nurtures the land and fields
Of all the regions, and that crops are abundant and cattle healthy.
Grant your blessings that the diseases of both humans and animals cease,
And that everyone is healed and the realm restored.
Grant your blessings that the disturbed minds of the world,
Caused by the evil thoughts of the powerful, are pacified.
Even though this chaos is the result of our own evil actions,
Grant your blessings that it loses all power and naturally subsides.
Grant your blessings that the dharmapālas fully liberate
All malicious beings without even being implored.
Grant your blessings that all these living beings
Become single-minded in their modesty and conscience.
Grant your blessings that they develop firm, unwavering love
And always engage in goodness for the sake of all.
Grant your blessings that the beings of this land thereby
Always enjoy the glory of happiness and well-being.
Grant your blessings that everyone is content and avoids dispute,
And that they honor the teachings and teachers from Ngari.
Grant your blessings that by pacifying the upheaval caused by spirits,
Loving kindness takes birth within all beings.
In sum, grant your blessings that all beings, embodied or otherwise,
Think and act in accord with the Dharma.
And grant your blessings that in the life to come, they will thus
Take rebirth together in the blissful realm of Sukhāvatī.
Grant your blessings, Guru Rinpoche, to dissolve into us,
You and your retinue, present here in the sky.
Bless us that we become equal to the master
In the power of our learning, realization, and qualities.
We are experiencing unbearable suffering,
And so we pray to you with fervent, unwavering devotion,
O great master, for there is nothing else we can do—
Please, perfectly accomplish the wishes and benefit of all beings!