The Treasure of Wisdom Illumination A Prayer to Sonam Senge, Omniscient Sun of the Teachings
Namo guru-puṇya-siṃhāya!
All-knowing Mañjuśrī, supreme lion of speech,
In order to become a sun for the tradition of Kunga, 1
You perfectly accomplished Samantabhadra’s aspirations.
All-seeing Mañjughoṣa guru, to you I pray.
Always indivisible from Mañjuśrī—Gentle Splendour,
You took birth as scholars and adepts in India and Tibet,
And then you took the form of this spiritual friend.
Vajra holder of the three sets of vows, to you I pray.
In the delightful palace of renunciation and discipline,
You are the great son and heir, an altruistic bodhisattva,
The Lord of Secrets sustaining vajra pride.
Guru who embodies the three families, to you I pray.
Master of all the profound and vast topics of knowledge,
Unobstructed in exposition, debate and composition,
You are a magnificent ornament enhancing the Land of Snows.
Peerless and unrivalled one, to you I pray.
You understood the precise meaning of Mother Prajñāpāramitā,
And showed yourself to be glorious Dharmakīrti in person,
As articulate in expression as Vasubandhu himself.
Great crown adornment of scholars, to you I pray.
You reconciled the visions of both Maitreya and Nāgārjuna,
Without falling into eternalist or nihilist extremes,
And revealed the great Middle Way of unity.
Second Lord of Sages for the Land of Snows, to you I pray.
With a stream of ripening empowerments and liberating instructions
In the tradition of Virūpa, that fearless and mighty guardian,
You brought fortunate disciples an abundant four-kāya harvest.
Most precious and noble one, to you I pray.
In reality, you are none other than mighty Vajradhara,
The lord of each and every maṇḍala,
Clarifying without error the meaning of tantra and secret mantra.
Great lord of yogins, to you I pray.
In this and all my other lives to come,
May I be blessed by your secret body, speech and mind,
And as I expound upon the intent of the victorious buddhas,
May I be indivisible from you, the all-knowing guru.
With powerful intellect capable of retaining, explaining and propagating
Your excellent teachings that have the splendour of great merit,
And with the leonine roar of comprehensive and universal victory
May I overcome the bestial hordes of mistaken views.