In Praise of the Eight Mahāsiddhas
Namo Gurubhyaḥ!
Dharmakāya Vajradhara having the colour of the sky,
Majestic with bone ornaments, holding a vajra and bell,
Together with the ḍākinī consort pink Khechari;
To the supreme father Vajradhara I praise.
Nāgārjuna, radiantly saffron, ornament of the Southern Continent,
With a forest goddess offering the nectar of immortality,
Having gained the attainments, teaching uninterruptedly for the benefit of others;
To the great accomplished one of supreme space I praise.
Indrabhūti, the colour of bluish smoke,
Dwelling in the land of Orgyan in the manner of royalty,
Together with [his] son departing for Khechara;
To the holder of the teachings of Secret Mantra I praise.
Ḍombī Heruka, the supreme prince,
Maroon and naked, riding on an emanated tiger,
Crossing the Ganges River seated on a mat;
To the feet of the Lord of emanated power I praise.
Saraha, glorious great Brahmin, golden in colour,
Using an arrow to pierce afflictions,
Flying in the sky to the land of Śrī Parvati;
To the One who has obtained the power of air-mind I praise.
Great adept Ghaṇṭapa having the colour of cotton,
On a trail of light twisting in a rainbow canopy with the consort and son,
Flying into the sky ringing a vajra and bell;
To the one who has obtained the power of Khechara I praise.
Glorious Kukkurīpā, whitish-grey,
Madly playing with a ḍākinī in the form of a dog,
Acquiring the attainments and without obstruction flying into the sky;
To the feet of the king of great accomplishment I praise.
Royal prince, Luipa, of smoky radiance,
Acquiring the attainments eating the guts of cruel fish,
Crossing the ocean of existence [while] keeping the behaviour of a monk;
To the feet of the one holding the supreme conduct I praise.
Padmavajra in the form of a layman, white in colour,
Performing the path of supreme meditation and eating only fruit,
Flying in the sky, riding an emanated tigress;
To the feet of the one who subdues evil I praise.
Through the power of this praise,
May we together, teachers, students and sponsors,
I request, at all times be free from negative obstacles
And be taken onto the positive Dharma path.