Nectar Shower of Blessings A Song of Yearning Devotion Recalling the Everpresent Gurus
Aho!
Universal embodiment of the kāyas and wisdoms of all the buddhas throughout the whole of space and time,
And source of wondrous lives of liberation beyond imagining,
Is the one and only father of all the buddhas, Mañjuśrī, who manifested in the form of this glorious lama,
Whose learning and accomplishment are beyond compare—Khyentsé Wangpo, care for me! Guide me! Inspire me! Make me one with you!
This great lord's wisdom embodiment was an actual manifestation of Padmasambhava and Vimalamitra,
And of Mañjuśrīmitra, who mastered all the Buddha’s teachings in their entirety;
His enlightened actions to dispel the darkness of this degenerate age extending throughout the whole of Jambudvīpa—
Mañjughoṣa in person, Chökyi Lodrö, care for me! Guide me! Inspire me! Make me one with you!
Inseparable from the queen of ḍākinīs, Yeshé Tsogyal of Shelkar,
Was the spiritual consort who extended the supreme vajra life of
Pema Yeshé Dorjé, 1 this great master, and cared for and delighted him—
One and only mother, Tsering Chödrön, care for me! Guide me! Inspire me! Make me one with you!
Guided by the spontaneously awakened Padma Vijaya, 2
Keeper of the treasuries of the profound and vast kama and terma, tantras, commentaries and pith instructions,
You who aspire to serve Mañjughoṣa throughout all your lives—
Gyurmé Tekchok Tenpé Gyaltsen, 3 care for me! Guide me! Inspire me! Make me one with you!
Care for me! O masters, guide me! Look into my mind!
We, the beings of this degenerate age, are so accustomed to our negative actions,
That, as if blind, we have no chance of gaining liberation,
And, with no other hope but you, we call out with fervent longing!
Our deluded perception, cultivated throughout beginningless time, is tougher than iron,
And we are further deluded by our own impure actions, which are like a layer of rust—
Through your unimpeded inspiration and blessings, transform this delusion into a great healing medicine,
And be our guides, steering our minds towards the Dharma!
It appears as if negative actions are more numerous than atoms in this world,
While Dharmic thoughts and actions are rarer even than finest gold—
So cut through the tight mesh of our deluded thoughts and perceptions,
And enable us to practise the excellent Dharma on the path of the supreme vehicle!
Whenever we view the practices of accumulation and purification as causes for happiness in this life alone,
Or hold false, mistaken views, cut through such bonds of the eight worldly concerns,
And, by leading us to the supreme path which delights all the buddhas,
Empower us to carry out vast oceans of enlightened action!
When our perception and experience dawns as the maṇḍala of great primordial awareness,
Then, through the sun-like blessings of the lama, who is the wisdom of our very own rigpa,
Let us seize the stronghold, in which delusion is purified into its basic nature,
And grant us the excellent fortune of meeting the three-kāya guru!