A Combined Guru Yoga for Marpa, Mila, and Gampopa
Alas! How hapless we sentient beings are,
Tangled in the ensnaring web of duality and ignorance.
Henceforth, I will apply myself to the supreme path of the secret essence,
The definitive meaning – the state of self-arisen wakefulness!
All phenomena are great emptiness, and from within this state
The apparent display – the unceasing maṇḍala – arises.
In the sky before me, in an expanse of five-coloured rainbow light,
Is a lotus, sun and moon-disc seat. In its centre
Is Heruka Hevajra, the Great Lotsāwa,
Chökyi Lodrö, in the attire of an upāsaka .
Radiating majesty, he displays the mudrā of subjugating.
To his right is noble Mila, Töpa Ga,
Who wears a white cotton shawl and sits in the resting-mind posture,
While singing vajra songs like the sounding of a lute.
To his left is Da’ö Shönnu 1 in renunciate’s attire,
Wearing a meditation hat. With his hands in the mudrā of equipoise,
He rests in the profound state of non-conceptual samādhi.
Above and below and in every direction all around
Are the dharmakāya, saṃbhogakāya, nirmāṇakāya,
Kagyü gurus, yidam deities, ḍākinīs, vīras and yoginīs,
Oath-bound Dharma protectors and more – all other objects of refuge,
Gathered like cloud-banks and vividly present before me.
Alas! You embody all victors of the three times;
You are a treasure trove of their awakened compassion,
A precious vase containing all their blessings—
Venerable Guru, know me!
Look upon us helpless beings drowning in delusion,
Lacking the Dharma, our mind-streams so warped!
With the hook of your awakened power,
Draw us out of the swamp of saṃsāra and its lower realms!
Think of me and all those like me,
Us infinite wandering beings without refuge or protector!
Grant your blessings that we may be quickly led
To the supreme realm of liberation, Great Bliss!
The Guru’s entire maṇḍala, the whole of appearance and existence,
Melts into light, dissolves into the central figure, who then dissolves into me.
The Guru’s mind and my mind are inseparable in the innate continuum.
I rest in that state, the unmodified expanse free of all complexity.