Root Downfalls of the Vajra Vehicle: A Confession
With perfect inspiration, I bow down
At the lotus-feet of the guru.
Here I shall set out the fourteen root downfalls
As they are taught in the tantras.
The Vajradhara said that accomplishments
Come from following the teacher,
So to disparage him or her
Is explained as the first root downfall.
All breaches of this, the first, I openly admit and confess!
To transgress the words of the sugatas
Is taught to be the second downfall.
All breaches of this, the second, I openly admit and confess!
Out of anger, to speak ill
Of one's vajra siblings is the third.
All breaches of this, the third, I openly admit and confess!
To abandon love for sentient beings
Is the fourth, the victorious ones say.
All breaches of this, the fourth, I openly admit and confess!
The root of Dharma is bodhicitta —
To abandon which is the fifth.
All breaches of this, the fifth, I openly admit and confess!
To disparage the tenets
Of one's own or others' traditions is the sixth.
All breaches of this, the sixth, I openly admit and confess!
To disclose secrets to beings
Who are not fully matured is the seventh.
All breaches of this, the seventh, I openly admit and confess!
To abuse the psycho-physical aggregates,
Which are by nature the five buddhas, is the eighth.
All breaches of this, the eighth, I openly admit and confess!
To have doubts about the natural purity
Of all phenomena is the ninth.
All breaches of this, the ninth, I openly admit and confess!
To show only affection to the wicked
Is said to be the tenth.
All breaches of this, the tenth, I openly admit and confess!
To conceptualize phenomena,
Which are unnameable and so on, is the eleventh.
All breaches of this, the eleventh, I openly admit and confess!
To cause those beings who have faith
To grow disillusioned is the twelfth.
All breaches of this, the twelfth, I openly admit and confess!
Not to rely upon the samaya substances
As one should is the thirteenth.
All breaches of this, the thirteenth, I openly admit and confess!
To disparage women, who are by nature wisdom,
Is the fourteenth.
All breaches of this, the fourteenth, I openly admit and confess!
The mantra practitioner who avoids all these [downfalls]
Will certainly attain accomplishment.
Otherwise, should you fail to keep your commitments
You will be caught by the demon of downfall,
And will thus experience suffering.
Brought down, you will descend to the hells.
Subjugate pride, therefore,
And know yourself to be unconfused.
With whatever you can afford,
Make offerings to the guru in the Sage's presence.
Begin by taking refuge in the Three [Jewels],
And, as a mantra practitioner,
Should you wish to benefit yourself, apply effort
And uphold the bodhisattva vows and the rest.