Music to Delight the Victorious Ones and Their Heirs A Mahāyāna Aspiration
Namo guru!
I pray that the vajra gurus, hosts of vidyādharas,
Yidams who support accomplishment, ḍākinīs and dharmapālas
All bear witness to the pure fulfilment
Of these, my prayers of aspiration, just as I wish.
This life is as impermanent as a dewdrop on a blade of grass;
There’s even a chance that I might die tonight or tomorrow.
Inspire me, therefore, to end my craving for all the riches of this world
And develop, from deep within, a determination to be free.
As it is the foundation for the path to liberation,
Inspire me to cleanse the basis of ethical discipline,
And never to let it be corrupted in any way
By the five types of downfall, 1 however slight.
Inspire me, so that the jewel of altruistic bodhicitta
May remain unsullied by base thoughts of self-interest,
And emptiness of which compassion is the very essence
May swiftly take hold within my stream of being.
May my mindstream be ripened by pure empowerment
Received from a fully qualified vajra master,
And, by genuinely maintaining the solemn samaya pledges,
May I unerringly adopt the supreme path of Vajrayāna.
Through generation and perfection, may I control my clinging to perception as ordinary,
And, bringing the entire web of aggregates, elements, channels, energies and essences
To maturity within utterly pure and immaculate luminosity,
May I perfect the great bliss that is immutable.
Through the swift approach, the profound stage of guru practice,
May I blessed with insight into the genuine nature of mind,
And realize, just as it is, without any error,
The vast wisdom sky of all-pervasive vajra wisdom.
Throughout all my lives to come, may I gain certainty
That the guru is Vajradhara, great face and embodiment of the Three Roots,
May uncontrived devotion arise from deep within,
And may I attain the original buddhahood that is its own effect.
For as long as conditioned existence continues to endure,
By adopting the excellent form of a bodhisattva,
May I perfect the aspirations of the heroic Mañjuśrī
To accomplish the welfare of beings in their infinity. 2
During this final era of five hundred years in particular,
When human and non-human forces harm the teachings and beings,
May I have the strength of compassion’s intense wrath
And smash the legions of Māra to smithereens.
With the great fire of scripture and reasoning,
May I be able to set alight in a single instant
The straw and chaff of erroneous views and conduct,
And illuminate the unmistaken view, meditation and action.
May I adopt the lifestyle of the great Jowo and his heirs, 3
Become proficient in all the enlightened deeds
Of the accomplished masters of Mahāmudrā and Dzogchen
And be of service to the teachings of the Victorious Ones!
In short, may I thoroughly and perfectly accomplish
All the aspirations of bodhisattva conduct without exception,
And, in time, when saṃsāra is eventually emptied,
Merge into the dharmakāya expanse of Samantabhadra.