The Prayer and Offering to 'The Great Lion, Gesar the Jewel', that Spontaneously Accomplishes Activities
Hūṃ hrīḥ! In the rākṣasa city of terror, on the Copper-coloured Mountain of Glory,
Lies the three-kāya buddha field of Lotus Light,
A wrathful realm, dark red like a raging inferno.
Within our vajra body, this is the city of the heart,
And there—in the palace of vidyādharas, ḍākas and ḍākinīs—
Dwells the indestructible form of wisdom that equalizes saṃsāra and nirvāṇa,
The embodiment of all the infinite buddhas—Padmasambhava, the Lake-born Lord.
The power of his compassion magically takes form.
Thronged by yogins and siddhas, male and female,
So that you can grant us devoted sons and daughters your blessing,
You appear from out of the sky, in your vajra dance of yogic conduct,
And arise as our protector, the tamer of māras, the drala werma:
Great vidyādhara, supreme ornament of this world,
Wielding your sword of wisdom, your arrows and your bow,
Powerful, mighty conqueror of legions of saṃsāric enemies,
Supreme being, 'Great Lion Jewel', Sengchen Norbu Dradül, with an army of attendants,
Your entire retinue, each and every one,
Thunders out the warriors’ cry: Ki Ki! So So!
Your famous banner, emblem of auspiciousness, flies high in the sky,
Your steed, the supreme vajra horse, beneath its hooves
Crushes the hearts and the life force of obstacle-makers and damsi demons.
From your clustering clouds of blessings, pour down an unending rain of siddhis!
When we fortunate ones make offerings to you, when we exalt you,
Let your compassion be limitless, and come, now, to this place!
Accept the best of the offerings, this nectar—the triumphant drink of warriors!
Accept this offering of torma, that possesses the vital force, and fulfils every wish!
Accept this exhilarating offering of ablution water!
Accept this smoke offering of clear light and fragrant incense!
Accept this offering of silks and banners and music!
Accept this secret offering—experiences of bliss and emptiness!
Accept this offering of the entire universe in the form of the thread-cross!
Accept this offering of primordial wisdom that equalizes all things!
Look on us with your compassion, Mighty Lion, Precious One!
Don’t ever neglect your promise, for you are the emanation of Mañjuśrī, Avalokiteśvara and Vajrapāṇi!
From now until enlightenment, never let us be apart!
Guard us, defend us, grant us your blessings, carry out your enlightened actions!
You are the embodiment of love—of empathy supreme,
Armed with all the weapons of great compassion.
You are the greatest at subjugating negative forces;
You are the one who dispels all fear of the four māras!
Bring out the power of your omniscient wisdom mind,
And pour your vast blessing into the very core of our hearts!
Coat our channels, inner air, and awareness with primordial wisdom,
And make whatever we do turn into the path to enlightenment!
Grant us the siddhis of power and mastery
Over the two activities—annihilation and caring for beings—
So we possess a dazzling command over the fierce mantras that subjugate māras,
And can turn the minds of living beings towards the Dharma!
Within that secret treasury, the endless knot that is our heart,
Fling open the door to the jewels of memory, brilliance and intelligence!
Let altruistic activity be as vast as space,
And accomplish the benefit of ourselves and others, just as our minds desire!
Let us possess the awakened mind of bodhicitta, and act just like the bodhisattva Samantabhadra.
And then, by following the sublime vehicle of the profound Vajrayāna,
Make our realization of the paths and stages grow ever greater,
So that we swiftly attain complete liberation, the supreme enlightened state of the conquerors!