Eradicating Downfalls by Reciting the Names of the Buddhas The Swift Path to Complete Awakening in a Single Instant
Gurus with ninefold lineage, 1 yidams and mandala deities of the four and six tantric classes, and ocean-like gatherings of ḍākinīs from the yogini tantras, for the benefit of all beings throughout the whole of space, I pay homage to you! I take refuge in you!
Blessed, thus-gone, worthy, complete and perfect Buddhas Vipaśyin, Śikhin, Viśvabhū, Krakucchandra, Kanakamuni, Kāśyapa, and Śākyamuni—the thousand male and female buddhas of the Excellent Aeon together with your retinue and heirs, to you I pay homage; in you I take refuge! 2
Homage to the thus-gone, worthy, complete and perfect Buddha, Equal to the Number of Stacked Grains of Sand in One Hundred Million Ganga Rivers.
Homage to the twelve tathāgatas, the supreme and completely perfect teachers. 3
Homage to the tathāgata Glorious Samādhi of the Radiant Sun Aura.
Homage to the sugatas Unsurpassed Qualities, Rays of the Sun, and Glorious Supreme Tala King.
Homage to the sugatas Glorious Radiance, and Infinite Purity.
Homage to the tathāgatas Moonlight, White Like the Moon, and Heroic Splendour.
Homage to the tathāgatas Strength of Happiness, and Stainless Light.
Homage to the tathāgatas Completely Victorious and Melody of the Victors.
Homage to the tathāgatas Moon-like Lantern; Victorious Lord; and Jewel Moonlight, Noble Refuge, King of the Drumbeat.
Homage to the tathāgatas Boundless Light, Universal Fragrance, King of Fragrance, and Mighty Ruler of Flowers.
Homage to the tathāgatas Powerful Lord Brahmā, Delightful Fragrance, and Brilliant King of Jewels.
Homage to the tathāgatas Golden Light, Golden Lustre, and Boundless Light.
Homage to the tathāgatas King of Stainless Light, Light of Fire, and Glorious Fragrance.
Homage to the tathāgatas Royal Treasure of Jewels, and Precious Victory Banner.
Homage to the tathāgatas Jewel Mine, and Brilliant Array of Flowers.
Homage to the tathāgata King with an Ocean-Like Retinue.
Homage to the tathāgata Renunciant of Diligent Strength.
Homage to the tathāgata Firm, Peaceful, Gentle and Powerful Vajra Hero, Transcendent Conqueror.
Homage to the tathāgatas Heroic King of Mountains, and Stupa of Jewel-Like Radiance.
Homage to the tathāgatas Single Essence that Overpowers All and Noble Umbrella of Jewels.
Homage to the tathāgatas Holders of the Vase of Longevity of the Deathless Protector Amitāyus, and Desireless Lotus Eyes.
Homage to the tathāgatas Glorious Jewel Flower, Strength of Power; Song of the Lion; Glorious Emanation, and Glorious Noble Elephant.
Homage to the tathāgatas Glorious Noble Umbrella, Glorious Lotus, Glorious Goodness, and Sacred Jewel.
Homage to the tathāgata Jewel-like Moonlight which Adorns the Wise, King of Eminent Melodies.
Homage to the tathāgata Mighty King Who Clears Away the Delusory Appearances of All Phenomena.
Homage to the tathāgata Stainless Moon.
Homage to the tathāgatas Glorious Heroic Samādhi, Clearing all Doubts for First Rousing Bodhicitta, and Imperturbable Protector.
Homage to the tathāgatas Protector Amitābha, King of Massive Splendour, and King of Heaps of Jewel-Like Steadfast Qualities.