A Sādhana of Hayagrīva’s Assembly, from the Heart-Essence of the Vast Expanse The Recitation of the Approach Phase
Hrīḥ. The union of space and awareness is the space of great purity.
My entire perception, spontaneously perfect, is the Potala Mountain,
With symbols, signs, and characteristics perfect within the maṇḍala. In its centre
Is a multi-coloured, thousand-petalled lotus and sun- and moon-disk seats.
From hrīḥ, I arise as the Noble One, the deity of compassion,
Transforming into the Assembly of Hayagrīva, King of the Wrathful Ones.
Standing upon a seat of nāgas and male and female demons, intertwined,
He is red in colour and blazes like the inferno at the end of times.
He has one face, two hands, three eyes and is baring his fangs.
In his right hand he holds a club which subjugates appearance and existence.
His left hand, in the threatening mudrā, points at the nāgas, nyen s and the eight classes.
His long hair is dark brown and he is crowned with five dry skulls.
The green horse-head’s muzzle shines and from its manes
Shoot out vajra sparks, terrorizing the arrogant spirits and causing them to faint.
His body is huge with muscular limbs, and from the pores of his body
Small wrathful deities shoot out and fill the space, granting complete protection.
He wears the skin of a person fit to be liberated, a tiger-skin skirt,
Three skull-garlands, a Brahmin's thread of snakes,
And bracelets and anklets made of snakes of the four castes.
He is embraced by his consort, similar to himself, who holds a knife and skull-cup.
He is poised with dignity amidst an expanse of blazing fire and is ready to act.
On the four spokes are the Mighty Ones of the four classes, coloured according to their activity and with consort.
Their right hands hold their respective implements and their left hands dispatch garuḍas of various colours.
Controlling the courtyards, at the four doors are, starting from the East,
The Horse-Faced Lady wielding a hook, the Boar-Faced Lady holding a lasso,
The Lion-Faced Lady brandishing shackles and the Dog-Faced Lady clutching a bell.
Their left hands hold the implement of their family, and they are coloured white, yellow, red and green.
All arise as appearance and emptiness, vividly present in unobscured space.
The deities' three centres are marked with the three seed syllables…
In your form as Hayagrīva…
The four divisions of Mighty Ones…
Within the heart of the wisdom deity, appearing in the form of Natural Liberation of Suffering, upon a lotus and sun disk seat, is a red syllable hrīḥ , surrounded by
oṃ vajra-krodha-hayagrīva hulu hulu hūṃ phaṭ
e ārali
vajra dün bhyoḥ | trig nan jaḥ jaḥ | samaya satvaṃ