The Pure Three Kāyas Ablaze in Perfect Splendour A Prayer Based on the Meaning of the Great Perfection
oṃ āḥ hūṃ
In the pure realms of the three kāyas,
Blessings and attainments are in perfect abundance.
To the gurus of the victorious ones' mind-direct transmission,
We pray: inspire us with your blessings!
In the supreme places of the great charnel grounds,
You gained supreme and ordinary attainments.
To the gurus of the vidyādharas' sign transmission,
We pray: inspire us with your blessings!
In places of accomplishment, sources of attainment,
Your own and others' welfare is perfectly secured.
To the gurus of the individuals' whispered transmission,
We pray: inspire us with your blessings!
In the realm of Ghanavyūha, 'Dense Array',
Everything appears as kāyas and wisdoms.
To the infinite yidam deities, peaceful and wrathful,
We pray: inspire us with your blessings!
In sacred places and associated realms,
You bring a wish-granting rain of accomplishments.
To the five families of the ḍākinīs of great bliss,
We pray: inspire us with your blessings!
In realms of utterly pure accomplishment,
Your power, strength and miraculous abilities are beyond measure.
To the hosts of ḍākinīs and oath-bound guardians,
We pray: inspire us with your blessings!
To the primordially pure dharmadhātu ,
The vast expanse of changeless awareness,
In which the Akaniṣṭha realm of clear light naturally appears,
We pray: inspire us with your blessings!
In our own pure awareness, primordially enlightened,
The kāyas and wisdoms are spontaneously present.
To this teacher, perfect from the beginning,
We pray: inspire us with your blessings!
To the state in which whatever appears is self-arising wisdom,
Naturally manifest awareness is complete with maṇḍala gatherings,
And all that surrounds us is, and always has been, spontaneously perfect,
We pray: inspire us with your blessings!
To this perfect equality, the state of awakening mind,
Spontaneously and primordially present, beyond cause and effect,
Wherein all phenomena are, and always have been, the Great Perfection:
We pray: inspire us with your blessings!
The pure expanse wherein all is unchanging,
The ground of continuously present eternity —
To this fourth time, forever unfolding,
We pray: inspire us with your blessings!
Whatever appears manifests as kāyas and wisdoms,
Emptiness is heard as the unborn sound of Dharma,
And thoughts are the primordially awakened wisdom mind.
To such a state, we pray: inspire us with blessings!
In this great expanse of naturally manifesting awareness,
Appearance and existence are the pure vessel and its contents,
And saṃsāra is not rejected but emptied from its very depths.
To such a state, we pray: inspire us with blessings!
In the great, sky-like expanse of our own awareness,
The three kāyas are not to be sought, but are already perfect,
And nirvāṇa, even without being cultivated, is spontaneously present.
To such a state, we pray: inspire us with blessings!
All dharmas within the expanse of awakening mind
Are neither purified nor gradually attained, but spontaneously perfect.
To this state, in which all is buddhahood from the very beginning,
We pray: inspire us with blessings!
To primordially pure awareness, the expanse of dharmakāya,
Which is transparent and nakedly clear, we pray!
A state that is unbounded, uninterrupted and pervasive —
Inspire us to realize the Great Perfection!
Spontaneously present wisdom, the expanse of clear light —
Inspire us to realize the pure manifestations of absolute space!
The expanse of manifestation that is the basis for ceaseless arising —
Inspire us to realize the purity of dualistic grasping!
The expanse in which all phenomena are self-arising, pure awareness —
Inspire us to realize the total freedom that is beyond all effort!
Transcending cause and effect, adoption or avoidance, effort or exertion —
Inspire us to realize the perfect ground of dharmakāya!
The expanse of awakening in which all is perfect equality —
Inspire us to realize the complete liberation of the three realms!
To the gurus, yidam deities and ḍākinīs,
For our own and others' sake, we pray:
Inspire us to reach the realization in which all dissolves into dharmatā ,
And thereby to perfect the two-fold benefit of ourselves and others!
The space of primordial purity, wherein ordinary phenomena are exhausted,
Dharmakāya beyond the conceptual mind, in which all is transparent and clear —
Gurus of the oral lineage: inspire us with your blessings!
Root guru, hold us in your compassion!
The sambhogakāya realm of self-appearing luminosity,
Wherein the buddha-forms and light-spheres shimmer and glow —
Gurus of the oral lineage: inspire us with your blessings!
Root guru, hold us in your compassion!
The immaculate, sky-like expanse of space and awareness,
The clear light in which prāṇa -mind is utterly pure —
Gurus of the oral lineage: inspire us with your blessings!
Root guru, hold us in your compassion!
So that all may reach the profound expanse of dharmatā ,
Wherein each and every wish is spontaneously fulfilled,
Lamas of the oral lineage: inspire us with your blessings!
Root guru, hold us in your compassion!