The Potent Nectar of Accomplishment A Prayer and Supplication to the Vidyādhara Gurus of the Three Lineages 1
The unchanging basic space of the ground is the dharmakāya Samantabhadra;
Its appearances, saṃbhogakāya, are cloud-like formations, the wisdom of the five buddha families;
And the three emanated lineages 2 destined to benefit beings are the gurus of the mind lineage –
I supplicate you: please shower down a great rain of blessings!
The emanated vidyādharas: Garab Dorje, Śrī Siṃha,
Padmasambhava, who is the embodiment of all buddhas, Vimalamitra,
And the eight highly accomplished and powerful vidyādhara masters 3 –
I supplicate you: please shower down a great rain of blessings!
The Dharma King, Trisong Detsen, and sons; Vairotsana, Namkhai Nyingpo, and other loyal subjects;
Dhātviśvarī, Queen of Space, and the other awakened ones, whose play is as five ḍākinī consorts, 4
Together with the assembly of awareness-holders who have the fortune to receive the oral tradition –
I supplicate you: please shower down a great rain of blessings!
Omniscient father and [spiritual] son, Nyangrel Nyima Özer and Guru Chöwang;
Ngari Paṇchen, Jangdak, Dorje Thokme, Chöje Lingpa,
Jamyang Khyentse Wangpo, 5 and the rest – limitless emanations defying the imagination –
I supplicate you: please shower down a great rain of blessings!
Unchanging lord of all buddha families – in essence you are all buddhas –
In these decadent times you were the protector of the supreme vehicle ’s long and short lineages. 6
You are the crown ornament of all who hold the victory banner of the buddhas’ teaching 7 –
I supplicate you: please shower down a great rain of blessings!
Sovereign, the very activity of Jamgön Khyentse,
Renowned as the omniscient Pema Yeshe Dorje; 8
And the emanation of Vairotsana, Trulshik Dharmamati –
I supplicate you: please shower down a great rain of blessings!
A vessel for the oceanic ways of dharma in all their immensity, 9
You are renowned as a veritable lion of the dharma of learning and accomplishment. 10
Confirmed as the custodian of these teachings, you received the blessing of the wisdom mind transmission.
I supplicate you: please shower down a great rain of blessings!
Supreme body, Mañjuśrī; speech, the deities of life;
Mind, Yangdak Heruka; quality, the various Guru cycles;
And supreme activity, Kīlaya – mind treasures, profound and vast –
Deities of their oceanic maṇḍalas, I supplicate you!
With no desire for the tainted objects of saṃsāra,
Upholding the three sets of vows – the concordant condition of the path –
And, having found an eye for study and reflection through fierce devotion and endeavor,
May I devote myself to practice in peaceful isolation.
May I moisten the field of being, the primordial ground, with bodhicitta;
Plant the seeds of the four kāyas through the path of ripening and liberation;
And perfect the signs of warmth on the path of the two stages
To reveal the resultant state, the innate and spontaneous state of a vidyādhara.
Until that time, may there be no outer, inner, or secret obstacle
When accomplishing the twofold aim of self and other.
With my life long and free of illness, may I accomplish everything I wish for,
And may the expression of awareness blaze forth as experience and realization.
May all those with whom I’m karmically connected, whether positively or negatively, be they dead or alive,
Come to recognize the seemingly terrifying appearances of the intermediate ( bardo ) state as the appearances of confusion;
Realizing them to be their own self-display, may they experience them as ‘appearance, increase and attainment’
And render evident the pure three kāyas.
The pure concentrated essences of the Vidyādhara Guru’s wisdom-heart
Are the sublime dharmas of his pure and profound mind treasures.
May they spread throughout the entire world and be well received,
Bringing everyone, directly and indirectly, to the state of an awareness-holder.
May the decline and shortcomings of this world and its inhabitants be arrested.
May longevity, merit, charisma, wind-horse, experience and spiritual realization increase.
May the wind-mind of all who rank highly within the three realms be brought under control,
And usher in the auspiciousness that is liberation from all adversity, hostility and obstructing forces.