A Guru Yoga of Śavari The Praise The Recitation
Āḥ. From the natural emptiness of all things,
Śavari, the lord of siddhas, appears
Atop a lotus, moon, and deerskin seat.
He is dressed in a light-brown cotton skirt
And adorned with flower garlands.
Part of his hair is tied in a topknot,
While the rest hangs down on both sides.
He wears a headband of utpala flowers,
With a single dried skull at his forehead.
A deer corpse is draped over his left shoulder,
And his right hand holds an arrow, his left, a bow.
Of his two legs, the right is raised at the knee,
While the left firmly rests upon his seat.
Within his forehead is Guru Vajradhara, radiant blue—
He holds a vajra and bell, and is united with his consort.
At his throat is white Lord Avalokiteśvara,
Who has taken the form of Semnyi Ngalso. 1
In his heart is indigo blue Cakrasaṃvara—
He is wielding a vajra and bell,
And is joined indivisibly with his consort, Vārāhī.
At his navel is the frowning Tārā— 2
Her hand is poised in supreme giving, the other holds an utpala with sword.
At his secret place is blue Wisdom Protector— 3
With a single face and six arms
He sits atop a lotus, sun, and Gaṇapati.
From the three syllables at his three bodily centers
Light radiates to invoke and dissolve the wisdom beings.
The empowerment deities grant empowerment,
And the family lord, Amitābha, adorns Śavari’s crown.
Hrīḥ, phai. From Akaniṣṭha, pure realm of basic space,
From the sambhogakāya and nirmāṇakāya realms,
And from the eight charnel grounds and sacred places,
Arrives Śavari, the Lord of Siddhas,
Amidst an oceanic host of ḍākinīs.
Parasols and victory banners gather in throngs
Accompanied by the clamor of instruments and song.
We invite you to join us here, Śavari!
Come bestow your blessings upon us!
oṃ ehye hi vajra-samajaḥ | jaḥ hūṃ baṃ hoḥ ||
Oṃ āḥ hūṃ. All outer, inner, and secret offerings
Present throughout all the infinite universes
Emerge from the display of Samantabhadra.
I offer this inexhaustible cloud, the treasury of space,
To the maṇḍala deities of the vidyādhara!
oṃ guru sarva-tathāgata-saparivāra vajra-arghaṃ pādyaṃ puṣpe dhūpe āloke gandhe naivedye śabda rūpa śabda gandha rāsa sparśa sarva-pañcāmṛta-rasāyana-rakta-baliṅta-tana-gaṇa-dharmadhātu-pūja hoḥ ||
Ema. Offerings! Such fabulous offerings!
Bodhicitta, the equality of saṃsāra and nirvāṇa,
Transcends dualistic concepts of subject and object!
The king of offerings is suchness itself!
Emaho. Lord of all accomplished vidyādharas,
Manifestation of all the many buddhas,
Śavari, lotus lord of the dance, 4
Who manifests in whatever form may help, I praise you!
Your heart contains an ocean of wisdom,
You proclaim the lion’s roar of selflessness,
Your garland of majesty is beautiful to behold,
Glorious Heruka, I praise you!
The essence of everything is Samantabhadra,
Whose very nature is Vajrasattva—
You possess this unimpeded, all-seeing eye,
Emperor of the one hundred siddhas, I praise you!
And so, may this song of praise
Pervade all worlds and realms.
And resonate harmoniously with all who hear,
Placing them within vajra awakening!
The sun and moon discs in the heart centres of the deities 6
Are each marked with the deities’ respective seed syllables,
Which radiate with light, making offerings to the noble ones and fulfilling the twofold benefit.
The world and its beings dawn as the maṇḍala of the guru.
oṃ āḥ mahā-guru vajra-dhara sarva-siddhi hūṃ |
oṃ āḥ lokeśvara khasarpaṇi sarva-siddhi hūṃ |
oṃ āḥ hrī ha ha hūṃ phaṭ |
oṃ sarva-buddha-ḍākiṇyai svāhā |
oṃ tāre tuttāre ture hūṃ phaṭ svāhā |
oṃ vajra-mahā-kāla kṣiṃ kṣetra vighnān-vināyaka hūṃ hūṃ phaṭ svāhā |
The entire world and beings melt into light and dissolve into me.
I myself, the outer deity, and inner deities beginning at the top and moving downwards, are gradually absorbed and dissolve into Cakrasaṃvara.
He too melts into light, and my subtle energy and awareness merge indivisibly with a vivid blue-red bindu the size of a bean. I leave this as it is, unsullied by thoughts of subject and object, and finally it too is released into the state of great emptiness without reference point.