Shower of Indestructible Splendour A Self-Initiation for the Guru Practice of the Vidyādhara Assembly, from the Heart-Essence of the Vast Expanse I. Establishing the Maṇḍala II. The Actual Self-Initiation 1. [The Cleansing] 2. The Request 3. Gathering the Accumulations 4. Taking the Vows 5. Entering the Maṇḍala 6. Taking Birth as Their Heir and Descent of Wisdom 7. The Prayer 8. The Actual Bestowal of Empowerment i. The Vase Empowerment ii. Secret Empowerment iii. Knowledge-Wisdom Empowerment iv. The Ultimate Empowerment III. The Concluding Stages
Here are presented the stages for entering The space of the four vajras— The three secrets of the vidyādhara guru, The omnipresent lord of the infinite maṇḍalas of the Three Roots.
bhrūṃ viśva viśuddhe oṃ āḥ hūṃ vajra-guru padma siddhi hūṃ phaṭ jaḥ
The wisdom deity in my heart separates and appears as the front visualization.
Visualize within the vase the hosts of deities of the guru practice of the Vidyādhara Assembly together with their retinue, like stars and constellations reflected on a lake. Within their hearts is the life-force syllable surrounded by the mantra garland.
Visualize yourself as the deity. From the mantra garland at your heart [light streams out], flowing through the dhāraṇī cord and invoking the wisdom minds of the deities in the vase.
Light rays radiate out and gather back, accomplishing the twofold benefit. A stream of amṛta of immaculate great bliss flows out from the deities' form and fills the vase completely.
Visualize instantly the wrathful Hayagrīva inside the activity vase. He is red in colour, his right hand holds a club with lotus flowers and his left hand holds aloft a lasso of fire.
From his body descend tiny particles of vajra-amṛta that fill the vase completely.
oṃ hayagrīva hūṃ phaṭ
oṃ āḥ hūṃ
Just as the gods cleansed your body
Moments after you took birth,
With the purest water of the gods,
Likewise I now cleanse and empower you.
oṃ sarva tathāgata abhiṣekate samaya śrīye hūṃ
vajra-jñāna rakṣa bhrūṃ
oṃ cakṣu bhandha vāra maṇāya hūṃ
aḥ khaṃ vīra hūṃ 5
Hoḥ. Please take care of me, a fortunate child of Noble Family,
And look upon me with your great compassion.
Allow me to enter this maṇḍala of the great samaya
And bring me to maturity!
Hoḥ. This maṇḍala of the supreme secret
Is difficult to enter and the stakes are high:
Impairing the samaya will bring destruction;
So, maintain the samaya and I’ll grant you empowerment.
I prostrate to the vajra master,
Glorious embodiment of the buddhas of past, present and future!
With a mind free from all duality,
I take refuge in the Three Jewels, the objects of reliance!
I request that you accept these pure offerings,
Both actual and envisioned.
My faults, the hindrances that cut the flow of siddhis,
I confess without exception.
In all those actions throughout the ten directions, done without attachment,
And free from concepts of subject, object and action, I rejoice!
I awaken the perfect bodhicitta,
Pure, untainted by the four extremes.
To the sugatas, mighty lords and sentient beings
I offer my body for the threefold purpose.
Gathering the merits accumulated throughout all my lives,
I dedicate them to supreme enlightenment!
Bliss-Gone One, 6 whatever you are like,
May I become exactly the same,
And carry out wondrous, inconceivable actions
In order to bring benefit to beings.
The vows of the supreme mind set upon awakening
And the mudrās of body, speech and mind,
Even at the cost of my own life, I shall not forsake.
Vajra king, inspire me with your blessings.
samaya praveśāya phaṭ
oṃ nama te hūṃ
oṃ nama me hūṃ
oṃ namo nama hūṃ
Consider that you are placed at the eastern door of the maṇḍala on an empowerment platform on a lotus with eight petals.
From the heart of the principal deity light radiates, purifying your karmically ripened body.
Your consciousness transforms into a white hūṃ syllable.
It shoots out from your mouth into the mouths of the principal deity and his consort and moves through their bodies.
Their passion causes it to melt and to descend to their point of union. You transform into the form of their offspring, born from bliss and emptiness, and are placed back on the platform.
Then you transform into the form of the vidyādhara guru, the all-pervasive lord of all buddha families.
In its centre, upon a multicoloured lotus, sun and moon, is a hūṃ ,
Out of which, perfect in the very moment of envisioning,
I arise as the actual presence of all the buddhas—
The Lotus-Born ‘Prevailing Over All That Appears and Exists’.
He has one face and two hands, and is white tinged with red.
As a sign of complete mastery over the three vehicles,
He wears monastic robes, gown and cape.
His right hand wields a five-spoked vajra in the threatening mudrā,
His left holds a skull-cup containing the long-life vase.
Cradled in his left arm is the beautiful goddess, Mandāravā.
On his head he wears the lotus hat,
And he is seated in the graceful posture of royal poise.
Like this, visualize everything clearly. Your three centres are marked with the three seed-syllables, from which light rays burst forth, inviting the Thus-Gone Ones of the ten directions, including their bodhisattva heirs. They dissolve into you, transforming your body, speech and mind into the three vajras.
Hūṃ! At the very beginning of this age,
In the north-west of the land of Oḍḍiyāna,
In the heart of a lotus flower,
Endowed with the most marvellous attainments,
You are renowned as the ‘Lotus-born’,
Surrounded by your retinue of many ḍākinīs
And oceanic hosts of vidyādharas and siddhas.
Following in your footsteps, I practise.
Come! Inspire us with your blessings—
Shower down your blessings on this supreme place!
Grant us, supreme practitioners, the four empowerments!
Remove any negativity, obstructing force or disturbance to our practice!
Grant us attainments, ordinary and supreme!
oṃ āḥ hūṃ vajra-guru-padma tötrengtsal | vajra-samāja jaḥ jaḥ
tiṣṭha vajra
pratīccha vajra hoḥ
prati gṛhaṇa imam satva mahābala
cakṣu praveśaya phaṭ
The Illusory Net’s maṇḍala of the Vidyādhara gurus, both deities and palace—
The appearance aspect of the three-kāya lamp of awareness and emptiness and the source of infinite kāyas and wisdom— actually manifests.
As the Vajra of Enlightenment bestowed
The supreme worship on the Buddhas,
Bestow it now upon me,
O Vajra Space, for my salvation. 8
From the tuft of hair at the point between the eyebrows of the guru ‘Prevailing Over All That Appears and Exists’ of the Vidyādhara Assembly, the wheel of the maṇḍala of the three seats of completeness emanates and fills the sky.
The consort-goddesses adorned with various auspicious symbols pour the nectar of bodhicitta on the crown of your head, empowering you.
Hūṃ. In the divine palace of the auspicious vase
Is the amṛta water indivisible from the deities,
Through which you, fortunate child, are empowered.
May clinging to appearances be perfected as the mudrā of the deities' form,
So that you attain the level of a matured vidyādhara
And reach the stage of universal radiance.
oṃ āḥ hūṃ vajra-māha-guru sarva siddhi hūṃ | kayābhiṣiñca oṃ
In this way you are empowered, and the amṛta of great bliss completely fills your body.
It purifies the stains of clinging to appearances as ordinary, including the habitual tendencies.
Your aggregates, elements and sense sources mature as the Illusory Net, the wheel of the maṇḍala of the consummate vidyādharas of the three seats of completeness.
The remaining liquid settles at the crown of your head and transforms into the crown of the five tathāgata families.
The empowerments deities dissolve into you as well.
With this, you have—within the guru maṇḍala of the empty-appearances of the vajra body—received the vase empowerment .
Karma of the body and obscurations of the channels are purified.
The blessing of the vajra-body has entered you.
You have become a suitable vessel for generation phase practice.
The seed of the matured vidyādhara has been planted within you.
You have gained the fortune to realize the nirmāṇakāya.
Consider that the amṛta from the union of the guru vajradhara and his consort is the actual bodhicitta and receive it from the secret space of the consort.
Hūṃ. Red and white bodhicitta flows from the point of union
Of the male deity and consort, and fills the skull-cup.
With it, fortunate child, you are empowered.
May your channels and elements be matured into syllables,
So that you attain the level of a vidyādhara with power over life
And reach the stage of the lotus of non-attachment.
oṃ āḥ hūṃ vajra-māha-guru sarva siddhi hūṃ | vākābhiṣiñca āḥ
Through tasting the amṛta, all your channels are filled with amṛta.
The bliss of the melting of the elements purifies all thoughts of the three times.
With this, you have—within the guru maṇḍala of the empty-sounds of vajra speech—received the secret empowerment.
Karma of the speech and obscurations of the wind-energy are purified.
The blessing of vajra-speech has entered you.
You have become a suitable vessel for mantra recitation.
The seed of the vidyādhara with power over life is planted within you.
You have gained the fortune to realize the saṃbhogakāya.
From the heart of the front visualization arises the mantra garland.
It enters through the mouth of the self-visualization,
And arranges itself around the seed at the heart.
oṃ āḥ hūṃ vajra-guru padma siddhi hūṃ
oṃ āḥ hūṃ vajra-māha-guru sarva siddhi hūṃ
In order to receive the third empowerment:
From the heart of the vidyādhara guru the youthful and alluring consort—whose nature is that of the female buddha families—emanates. I urge her to serve as the support for liberation.
Hūṃ. The source of all phenomena
Is the secret mother-consort of great bliss.
By presenting her to you, fortunate child,
May you actualize the wisdom of the four joys,
So that you attain the level of a mahāmudrā vidyādhara
And reach the stage of Great Cloud Mass of Rotating Syllables! 9
oṃ āḥ hūṃ vajra-māha-guru sarva siddhi hūṃ | cittābhiṣiñca hūṃ
oṃ sarva-tathāgata-mahānurāgaṇa-jñāna-vajra-svabhāvātmako ’ham
With this, you have—within the guru maṇḍala of the empty-bliss of vajra mind—received the insight-wisdom empowerment.
Karma of the mind and obscurations of the essences are purified.
The blessing of vajra-mind has entered you.
You have become a suitable vessel for the bliss-emptiness of caṇḍāli practice.
The seed of the mahāmudrā vidyādhara is planted within you.
You have gained the fortune to realize the dharmakāya.
In order to receive the fourth empowerment:
Rest in the meditative equipoise of reality, the wisdom of the absolute guru that was illustrated by the example wisdom arisen from skilful means.
Hoḥ. On the surface of the clear mirror of primordial purity
The stainless crystal of spontaneous presence is reflected.
Through this empowerment in which symbolic indications are complete,
May you realize the natural state of immaculate awareness,
So that you attain the level of a spontaneously accomplished vidyādhara
And reach the stage of great bliss.
oṃ āḥ hūṃ vajra-māha-guru sarva siddhi hūṃ | dharmadhātu-abhiṣiñca āḥ
Through this introduction you experience—with your own natural awareness—the absolute vidyādhara-guru, the mahāguru of great bliss, the simultaneously arisen wisdom of awareness and emptiness whose nature is non-conceptual. Rest with meditative equipoise in the space of the unaltered natural state.
As indicated by these words, you have—within the guru maṇḍala of the empty-awareness of primordial wisdom— received the ultimate empowerment.
Karma of the all-ground and cognitive obscurations are purified.
The blessing of vajra-wisdom has entered you.
You have become a suitable vessel for the primordial purity of the Great Perfection.
The seed of the spontaneously accomplished vidyādhara is planted within you.
You have gained the fortune to realize ultimate fruition of the svabhāvikakāya.
All the supreme root samayas of body, speech and mind,
The twenty-five branch samayas,
And the Great Perfection samayas such as absence, oneness, and suffusion,
I pledge to maintain in the proper way.
The ground is purified with scented water and strewn with flowers.
It is adorned with Sumeru, the king of mountains, the four quarters of the universe, and the sun and the moon;
Thinking of it as the blessed buddha-fields, I offer it.
By virtue of this offering, may all beings here and now attain the happiness of that pure land!
tram guru-ratna-maṇḍala-pūjā-megha-samudra-spharaṇa-samaye āḥ hūṃ
Whatever the guru, chief of the maṇḍala, commands,
I shall carry out—each and every instruction.
I offer myself to you completely.
Please take me as your disciple and make use of me.
This is an excellent skilful method, delightful and easy to practice,
To swiftly invoke the blessing of the three vajras
Of the unsurpassable wisdom of the all the victorious ones.
May it become the glory that delights the fortunate ones!