Nectar of Lunar Crystal A Prayer to Orgyen Chökyi Wangpo
Oṃ svasti.
Reddish yellow, the spray of your hand adorned with a sword,
Perfectly handsome amidst a web of wisdom light rays,
Ablaze and golden with the radiance of a pristine dawn,
Your wisdom kāya fills the whole of space in every direction.
You are without equal in displaying all at once
Manifestations of love by their hundreds of thousands,
And in opening doors to samādhi by the score.
Thus, the victorious ones and their heirs extol you
And pin flowers of praise to the five families at your crown.
Light from the jewel of your topknot illuminates all realms.
One and only father of the conquerors, Mañjughoṣa,
You enter the finest particles and pervade existence and peace.
As the fruit of aspirations, you manifest according to wishes,
And appear as a spiritual teacher of supreme intellect,
A peerless guide for this decadent age.
You touched the lotus feet of Mañjughoṣa
And the sitar of your wondrous life of liberation played.
Your texts on awakening activity, the sūtras and so on
Became a sacred support for teachings and beings, an ornament for all the world.
Yeshe Jungne 1 intentionally reincarnated,
Inseparable from the sublime and exalted Mañjughoṣa,
You taught, practised and imparted direct instructions
On the major treatises of the learned ones of Jambudvīpa—
Compassionate guru, I call you to mind again and again.
With skill and ingenuity, you tamed unruly beings,
Stemmed the tide of misdeeds, fostered the path of virtue
And planted the seed of liberation in all with a connection—
Orgyen Jigme Chökyi Wangpo, to you I bow down.
In the dharma space of fourfold liberation and the six syllables,
You planted the tethering stake of benefit for all you encountered,
And drew in learned, accomplished students through your enlightened acts of speech—
Heir to the victors, most magnificent of teachers, to you I offer praise.
When your life was complete, in limitless emanations
You continued to teach the Dharma of the Great Vehicle
In the realms of Sukhāvatī, Abhirati and elsewhere—
Dharma lord, who caused the teachings and beings to prosper,
As a result of my repeated prayers to you,
Dispel all obstacles to the practice of sacred Dharma into basic space,
Inspire me with your blessings so that I may master sublime bodhicitta,
And grant your blessings so that twofold benefit may arise spontaneously.