A Sādhana of Golden Mañjughoṣa
By respectfully relying on the Guru and Three Jewels as refuge,
And through the power of praising and accomplishing Mañjuśrī in order to liberate all beings,
May sentient beings enjoy happiness, be free from all kinds of suffering,
Never be separated from happiness and abide in equanimity.
oṃ svabhāva śuddhāḥ sarvadharmāḥ svabhāva śuddho ‘haṃ
Arising from the unified display of emptiness and dependent origination,
Three places marked with oṃ āḥ hūṃ and syllable dhīḥ
Invoke noble Mañjughoṣa into the sky before me—
Orange in colour and holding a sword and volume of text.
He wears jewel ornaments and silken garments and his two legs are crossed,
As he sits upon a lotus and moon-disc, empowered and sealed.
From his vital syllable arise clouds of praise and the mantra garland.
Dissolving into me and causing wisdom’s radiance to expand.
Your wisdom is brilliant and pure like the sun, free from the clouds of the two obscurations.
You perceive the whole of reality, exactly as it is, and so hold the book of Transcendental Wisdom at your heart.
You look upon all beings imprisoned within saṃsāra, enshrouded by the thick darkness of ignorance and tormented by suffering,
With the love of a mother for her only child. Your enlightened speech , endowed with sixty melodious tones,
Like the thundering roar of a dragon, awakens us from the sleep of destructive emotions and frees us from the chains of karma.
Dispelling the darkness of ignorance, you wield the sword of wisdom to cut through all our suffering.
Pure from the very beginning, you have reached the end of the ten bhūmis and perfected all enlightened qualities. Foremost of the Buddha’s heirs,
Your body is adorned with the hundred and twelve marks of enlightenment. To Mañjughoṣa, the ‘Gentle-voiced’, I prostrate, and pray: dispel the darkness from my mind!
oṃ arapacana dhīḥ
With all of your kindness and love, let your wisdom’s shining light
Clear the darkness of my ignorance, once and for all.
Grant me, I pray, the intelligence, the brilliance
To understand the scriptures—the words of the Buddha and works of the masters.
And whenever I wish to look upon you,
Or ask of you anything at all,
Lord and protector, Mañjughoṣa,
Let me see you without any hindrance! 1
Just like the Youthful Mañjuśrī — in exalted intention,
Activities, aspirations, wisdom, love and capacity,
Whatever displays of unsurpassable wisdom there might be —
May I and other beings come to be exactly as he is.