Activities for Uncovering Primordial Wisdom from the Chimé Pakmé Nyingtik, ‘The Heart-Essence of the Sublime Lady of Immortality’ The Preliminaries 1. Taking Refuge 2. Generating Bodhicitta 3. Seven-Branch Offering 4. Gektor 5. Visualizing the Protective Spheres 6. Descent of Blessings 7. Blessing the Offerings II. The Main Practice 2. Inviting the Jñānasattvas 3. Requesting the Jñānasattvas to Remain 4. Prostration 5. Offerings 6. Offering Praise with Vajra Song 7. Mantra Recitation a. Approach b. Accomplishment c. Activity The Offering of the Tsok of Great Bliss Blessing the Offerings Inviting the Deities Descent of Blessings Offering the First Portion Second Offering Remainder Offering Aspiration Prayer Conclusion Cheto Offering Tenma Offering Vajra Dance III. Conclusion 1. Offering, Praise and Accomplishments 2. Confession 3. Dissolution 4. Reappearance 5. Dedication 6. Aspiration Prayer 7. Prayer of Auspiciousness
Namo.
Until we attain enlightenment, I and all sentient beings
Take refuge with unwavering devotion
In you, Guru Wish-fulfilling Wheel, who are
The very essence of the Three Jewels!
Hoḥ.  Sentient beings are as countless as space is vast,
In order to free every one of them from the ocean of suffering
By attaining immortality through this yoga of the Sublime Lady,
I arouse the enlightened mind of bodhicitta.
Hoḥ. I multiply my body as many times as there are atoms in the universe,
Overflowing with devotion, and pay homage, body, speech and mind
As I bow to the lotus beneath the feet of the buddhas and bodhisattvas of all directions and times,
And to their sublime mother, Tārā.
Here is an unsurpassable array of outer, inner and secret substances,
Like the vast cloud-like offerings of Samantabhadra.
I confess all negative actions, obscurations, faults and downfalls,
And rejoice in the practice of the two accumulations.
Continue turning the wheel of the Dharma,
And do not pass into nirvāṇa, but remain here, we pray.
I dedicate our accumulation of merit towards the attainment of the heart of enlightenment.
May we swiftly accomplish Buddhahood for the benefit of others.
Hūṃ. Primordially, saṃsāra and nirvāṇa are inseparable,
Yet temporary delusion manifests as negative forces and obstacle makers.
Accept this torma as an offering or a gift
And depart for the dharmadhātu empty of inherent existence.
Hrīḥ. All that appears and exists, environment and beings,
Is the vajra protection tent,
And with deity, mantra and fundamental primordial wisdom,
The boundary maṇḍala is spontaneously present.
vajra jñāna rakṣha oṃ āḥ hūṃ
The three root deities of the ten directions and four times
Are aroused as the mudrās of the Sublime Lady’s three secrets—
Let them dissolve into me, the place, the ritual implements and substances,
Which now blaze with the splendour of blessings.
oṃ āḥ hūṃ
a la la ho | samaya ho | samaya stvaṃ
From the expanse of the ground, the dharmakāya palace,
Arises the appearance of the ground, the discernment of everything,
O bhagavatī of the supreme lotus family,
Wish-fulfilling Wheel who increases longevity,
Bless this place and bestow the supreme empowerment,
Arouse primordial wisdom in our body, speech and mind,
Increase our longevity, merit, wealth, experience and realization,
And grant us the ordinary and supreme accomplishments.
oṃ tāre tuttāre ture svāhā
jñāna vajra samaya āveshaya a āḥ
hrīṃ hrīṃ pheṃ pheṃ | hūṃ hūṃ hūṃ | jaḥ hūṃ baṃ hoḥ
oṃ āḥ hūṃ
In the centre of the pure land of great bliss called Pemakö,
An infinite, pure buddha field,
All outer, inner and secret offerings
Become the wheel of the sky treasury.
oṃ āḥ hūṃ sarva pūja megha samaya hūṃ
oṃ mahāśūnyatā jñāna vajra svabhāva atmako ’haṃ
All things in saṃsāra and nirvāṇa are
The primordial, luminous space of suchness, in which arises
The power of all-illuminating compassion. Their union
Is the causal samādhi, a white tāṃ ,
Appearing like a rainbow in the sky and
Sending out light that purifies clinging to reality in the world and amongst beings.
Within the expanse of the five elements, the consorts,
Stands the celestial mansion of great liberation,
Formed of precious crystal,
Complete with four sides, four doors and all its features.
A wish-fulfilling jewel beautifully ornaments its summit.
It has toraṇas, dharma wheels, deer and parasols,
And is adorned with the yellow brick frieze, festooned garlands,
Sharbu ornaments, and pagoda roofs.
It is encircled by offering goddesses who stand on the pleasure terraces
And all this is surrounded by the worldly protectors.
In its centre on a four-petalled lotus, are
Skilful means and wisdom—sun and moon fused together—
In the centre of which is the syllable tāṃ , as their union.
Light emanates from tāṃ as an offering to the noble ones,
Gathering and bringing back the quintessence of saṃsāra and nirvāṇa,
Which transforms into the magical body of wisdom,
Embodiment of the enlightened activity of the buddhas, past, present and future,
Wish-fulfilling Wheel, bestower of immortality.
Brilliant white, with one face and two hands,
Her right hand in the mudrā of supreme generosity;
Her left grants refuge, symbolizing the Three Jewels,
And holds an utpala flower supporting the vase of longevity.
Peaceful, smiling, with seven eyes of wisdom,
She is lovely and adorned with silks and jewelled ornaments.
Her two legs crossed in vajra posture,
She sits on her lotus and moon disc seat.
As her natural radiance her supreme skilful means, the Lord of the Dance,
Holds a lotus flower and long-life vase, and embraces her in union.
She passionately abides in undistracted great bliss and the four joys
While her secret space emits
The bodhicitta seed-syllables, tāṃ , bhrūṃ , hrīḥ and hūṃ .
The syllables emanate and reabsorb rays of light. As they reabsorb the light,
In the east, tāṃ transforms into dark blue Vajra Tārā,
Holding an utpala flower and a vajra in the mudrā of supreme generosity,
In the south bhrūṃ transforms into yellow Ratna Tārā,
Holding an utpala flower and a jewel in the mudrā of supreme generosity,
In the west hrīḥ transforms into red Padma Tārā,
Holding an utpala flower and an iron hook in the mudrā of supreme generosity,
In the north hūṃ transforms into black Karma Tārā,
Holding an utpala flower and a sword, in the mudrā of supreme generosity.
They are all adorned with the silks and jewelled ornaments,
Wearing the pacifying, increasing, magnetizing and wrathful expressions.
Each sits on a lotus and moon disc in the half-vajra posture.
Again, the Sublime Lady emanates jaḥ , hūṃ , baṃ , and hoḥ .
These syllables are sent to the four doors where, on lotus and sun disc seats,
They transform into Vajra Hook Tārā, Lasso Tārā,
Iron Chain Tārā and Bell Tārā,
White, yellow, red and green respectively, with semi-wrathful expressions
And each holding her own hand implement and an utpala flower.
Dancing, with one leg stretched and the other bent, they suppress the four māras,
And are adorned with the silks and jewelled ornaments.
A host of the three root deities and dharma protectors fill the whole of space,
As a great net of magical emanations
That is the self-radiance of primordial wisdom arising from basic space,
Akin to the sun’s rays and the sun itself.
Gathering in vast family assemblies,
The deities—the great arising as the ground of all that appears and exists—
Manifest clearly, unborn yet primordially perfect.
The crown of their heads, their throats and hearts,
Are marked with the syllables of the three vajras,
From which rays of light stream out and
Invite the jñānasattvas.
Hrīḥ. Long-life Goddess with supreme discerning wisdom,
Crowned by Amitābha, the Buddha of Limitless Light,
Lady who is the enlightened activity
Of the buddhas of past, present and future,
Approach! You who manifest as the Wish-fulfilling Wheel
With the retinue of assembled families that you emanate—
Rūpakāyas that magically arise
From the dharmakāya beyond arising.
Your samaya of great compassion obliges you
To confer the supreme siddhi on this practitioner,
Direct your wisdom mind into this maṇḍala of the samayasattva,
And arouse in me indestructible vajra wisdom!
samaya hoḥ
samaya stvaṃ
e āralli hrīṃ hrīṃ jaḥ
jñānasattva a āḥ
The jñānasattvas, invited from the dharmadhātu
Are drawn into and bound to the samaya maṇḍala,
Where they stay, rejoicing in the great equality of 'one taste'.
Oṃ. Enlightened body, speech and mind mudrās
Of the unsurpassable vajra wisdom,
Come and remain securely in great inseparability,
Forever indivisible from the host of deities made manifest through samādhi.
vajra jñāna jaḥ hūṃ baṃ hoḥ
samaya tiṣhtha lhen
Hrīḥ. To the deities of the maṇḍala of the Sublime Lady of Immortality,
Primordially innate within me, and
Free from dualistic clinging, I offer the homage of the view
In the expanse of the purity and equality of dharmakāya.
a la la hoḥ | ati pu hoḥ | pratīccha ho
I send out hosts of vajra goddesses
Who fill the sky,
Holding great clouds of offerings to pervade the whole of space.
Oṃ. Whether actually present, or manifested by the mind,
All the offerings in countless universes, inner, outer and secret,
I offer to you, noble Wish-fulfilling Wheel:
Accept them and grant the siddhi of immortality!
oṃ ārya tārā saparivara arghaṃ pādyaṃ puṣhpe dhūpe āloke gandhe naividyā shabda pratīccha svāhā
Oṃ. These objects stimulate the senses
And this duality arises as great bliss;
Accept this offering of vajra form, sound, smell, taste and touch
As the great mudrā of offering.
oṃ ārya tārā saparivāra rūpa śabda gandhe rāsa sparśe pratīccha svāhā
Oṃ. Amṛta of eight main and one thousand minor ingredients,
Rakta , the essence of the liberation of the three worlds,
And the baliṃta that delights the five senses,
May these offerings please the host of maṇḍala deities!
sarva pañca amṛita mahā rakta mahā baliṃta khāhi
Āḥ! Natural clear light bodhicitta
Is beyond the elaboration of the three spheres
Of offering substances, the offerer, the act of offering and so on,
Please, accept it as the great, supreme offering.
sarva dharmadhātu ātmako ‘haṃ
Oṃ. You were born from the tears of
The lord of the world and master of compassion.
Mother of the buddhas of past, present and future,
Wish-fulfilling Wheel, to you I pay homage and offer praise!
The colour of the stainless moon, jewel of the sky,
You hold an utpala flower in the mudrā of supreme generosity,
Peaceful and smiling, blazing with the splendour of the signs and marks—
To your vajra body, I pay homage and offer praise!
Your melodious speech, an ocean of qualities,
Sprinkles a soothing and refreshing shower of amṛta
That awakens the buddha nature in sentient beings—
To your Brahma speech, I pay homage and offer praise!
With your wisdom of knowledge and love, you see everything,
From the perspective of the samādhi of equanimity,
Without moving from the space of the inconceivable great seal.
To your mind of clear light, I offer praise and homage.
Whoever prays to you,
You bless instantly, and
Grant them the accomplishments and everything they desire—
To your infinite enlightened qualities, I pay homage and offer praise!
With your names and array of forms,
With the various secret mantras of awareness,
You pacify, enrich, magnetize, and subjugate—
To your spontaneously accomplished enlightened activities I pay homage and offer praise!
You do not move from unique dharmatā,
Yet in accord with the capacity of beings to be trained,
You display a net of magical emanations—
To all the deities of the maṇḍala, I pay homage!
I am sublime Tārā: in my heart
Is the jñānasattva Amitāyus,
Brilliant white and holding a long-life vase in the mudrā of meditation,
Beautiful with his silk and jewelled ornaments,
In vajra posture on a lotus and moon disc seat,
Shining and resplendent amidst brilliant rays of light.
In the centre of his heart is a lotus, and sun and moon discs
In the middle of which is tāṃ encircled by the mantra mālā.
Reciting the mantra evokes his wisdom mind, causing
A stream of boundless light to burst out
From the top of the jewel on the uṣṇīṣa at the crown of my head,
From which appears the sublime Vijayā,
The colour of crystal. Her right hand,
In the mudrā of granting refuge, holds a hook;
Her left, in the mudrā of supreme giving, holds a long-life vase.
She radiates light and rays of light, and
Limitless forms of herself stream out like specks of dust in sunbeams.
They draw in all the wisdom, love and power
Of all the deities of the maṇḍala,
All the buddhas and bodhisattvas of the ten directions,
All the yidams, ḍākas and ḍākinīs, and
All the protectors of the Vajrayāna teachings.
They also draw in all the subtle vital essence of saṃsāra and nirvāṇa, the animate and inanimate universe,
In the form of the mercury that accomplishes all
Marked with forms of great bliss.
It dissolves into me and the ritual implements,
Granting me the siddhi of immortal life,
And intensifying the wisdom of great bliss.
oṃ tāre tuttāre ture svāhā
oṃ tāre tuttāre ture hrīḥ bhrūṃ vajra jñāna āyuṣe svāhā
oṃ amāraṇi jīvantiye svāhā
oṃ amṛita ayurdade svāhā
Again, great cloud-like rays of light emanate and return,
And dissolve into the heart of the maṇḍala deities
Who experience untainted great bliss.
Indestructible, supreme primordial wisdom arises
And all worlds and beings within the three realms
Appear as the play of bliss and emptiness.
The outer environment are the five spaces 2 and the maṇḍala of the dharmadhātu,
The beings within it are awareness in the form of deities,
The sounds are the indestructible mantras;
They are all the miracles of the one and only samādhi
Of supreme, unchanging Clear Light—
All phenomena of saṃsāra and nirvāṇa that appear and exist,
Become the wheel of the net of magical manifestation.
oṃ tāre tāṃ svāhā
oṃ tāre bhrūṃ svāhā
oṃ tāre hrīḥ svāhā
oṃ tāre hūṃ svāhā
I, the samayasattva,
Together with the jñānasattva and nirmāṇasattva,
Send forth a brilliant profusion of rays of compassion
That invoke the wisdom mind of the Tārās of the four families.
In turn, they send out rays of light
That invoke the wisdom mind of the gatekeepers who accomplish activities.
Deities resounding their own mantras
Fill the sky and pervade the ten directions.
With infinite ways of training those beings who are ready,
They pacify all disease, harmful forces, negativities and obscurations within dharmadhātu,
They increase longevity, merit, wealth and intelligence,
Bring the three realms, inner air and mind under control,
Destroy enemies, obstacle makers and duality.
These supreme and common activities,
Through the magic of the samādhi of emanating and re-absorbing rays of light,
Are all accomplished as I envision them.
oṃ tāre tāṃ jaḥ śāntiṃ kuru svāhā
oṃ tāre bhrūṃ hūṃ puṣṭiṃ kuru oṃ
oṃ tāre hrīḥ baṃ vāśaṃ kuru hoḥ
oṃ tāre hūṃ hoḥ māraya phaṭ
Raṃ yaṃ khaṃ
Out of the state of emptiness arises, upon wind and fire,
The container, the kapāla of great bliss.
Inside which are the samaya substances of the five families,
In an abundance of desirable offering nectar.
oṃ hūṃ trāṃ hrīḥ āḥ
ha hoḥ hrīḥ
Hrīḥ. From the Akaniṣṭha palace of dharmadhātu,
From Yulokö and Potala,
From the eight charnel grounds, the twenty-four sacred places
And the thirty-two hallowed lands,
Samantabhadrī Vajrayoginī,
Most excellent mother who liberates saṃsāra,
Together with an ocean of three root deities and dharma protectors,
You are invited to this tsok gathering.
Out of your great compassion, please come!
Bless this tsok temple as a natural nirmāṇakāya pure field,
Bless these desirable offerings as vajra samaya substances,
And bless all that appears as deities and all sound as mantras.
Rain down the blessings of the great primordial wisdom!
sarva samaya jaḥ jaḥ
Oṃ. In the perfect self-arisen kapāla
Lies the tsok torma of food and drink.
This samaya substance is skilful means and wisdom.
Please accept it as the outer offering.
We confess all breakages of the samayas of the body
For which we yogis and our companions are responsible.
Liberate all the demons of aggregates into basic space,
And bestow the long-life empowerment of ‘indestructible body’.
samaya gaṇacakra pūja hoḥ
Āḥ. In the kapāla of appearance, the environment,
Lies the tsok torma of existence, sentient beings.
This samaya substance is an ocean of desirable things,
Please accept it as the inner offering.
We confess all breakages of the samaya of speech
For which we yogis and our companions are responsible.
Liberate all the demons of the Lord of Death into basic space,
And bestow the long-life empowerment of ‘unceasing speech’.
pañcha kāma gaṇacakra pūja hoḥ
Hūṃ. In the kapāla of the three channels and the chakras
Lies the tsok torma of bodhicitta.
This is the samaya substance of inseparable bliss and emptiness,
Please accept it as the secret offering.
We confess all breakages of the samaya of mind
For which we yogis and our companions are responsible.
Liberate all the demons of destructive emotions into basic space,
And bestow the long-life empowerment of the ‘mind of clear light’.
mahāsukha gaṇacakra pūja hoḥ
Hoḥ. In the kapāla of the great simplicity of dharmadhātu
Lies the tsok torma of self-luminous rigpa.
This is the samaya substance of great unity,
Please accept it as the unsurpassable offering.
We confess all breakages of samayas of the three secrets
For which we yogis and our companions are responsible.
Liberate all the demons of the ‘sons of gods’ into basic space,
And bestow the long-life empowerment of ‘vajra primordial wisdom’.
jñānadhātu gaṇacakra pūja hoḥ
The amṛta completely satisfies the deities.
They utter sounds of bliss, radiate rays of light,
And gather the essence of existence and peace,
Which dissolves into the samaya tsok substances
To become a huge pile of amṛta that ‘liberates upon taste’.
oṃ āḥ hūṃ jñāna amṛita gaṇacakra sarva siddhi hūṃ hrīḥ ṭha
Hrīḥ pheṃ! In the past, when the siddha heruka
Vidyādhara Śrī Siṃha,
Ācārya Vimalamitra
And the immortal Pema Thötrengtsal
Turned the wheel of the gaṇacakra
In the eight great charnel grounds,
You ḍākas, ḍākinīs and Dharma protectors,
Received the remainder torma.
Now, as we invoke your vajra pledge
To do as you are instructed,
Accept this offering of desirable things,
And dispel the outer, inner and secret obstacles
We yogis and our companions face,
Arose our life, merit, wealth and wisdom,
And quickly accomplish the four activities.
ucchiṣhṭa gaṇacakra pūja hoḥ
By enjoying with great delight,
The samaya substances of indestructible great bliss,
Which are this unsurpassable tsok offering,
May we accomplish the immortal wisdom body.
Hūṃ bhyo! In the expanse beyond the transience of the three times,
Self-luminous rigpa awareness, instantly arose
The mudrās of forms
Uṣṇīṣavijayā
Granted the accomplishment of ‘unchanging immutability’
To the vidyādhara Śrī Siṃha.
The Wish-fulfilling Wheel of Immortality
Bestowed the ‘supreme empowerment of vajra longevity’
On the great ācārya Vimalamitra.
The great protector, the Lord of Life with consort,
Conferred the empowerment of ‘no birth and death’
On Orgyen Pema Thötreng.
At that time, the entire ocean of wisdom and
Worldly samaya-bound dharma protectors
Gathered like clouds in the sky.
At that time, did you not promise to protect
The vidyādhara disciples of the future like your children?
Remember now your vajra pledge
And accept the first portion of torma, an ocean of desirable qualities,
Of amṛta and of rakta, as an offering.
Avert the obstacles of the four māras and send them into the dharmakāya,
Liberate into the vast expanse the enemy and the obstructing force of duality,
And with the wisdom of great bliss
Perform the activities that accomplish immortality.
samaya sarva karma kuru ho
Hūṃ. Tenma sisters, protectresses of the Vajrayāna teachings,
Who each rule two hours of every day,
Accept this nectar of rinse water
And accomplish the activities that bring happiness to Tibet and Kham.
mama hrīṃ hrīṃ amṛta pūja ho
Hūṃ. The hosts of damsi demons—the view of ‘belief in a self’—
Are pressed into the triangular vajra space of selflessness,
And pounded with the dance of the three liberations.
As a result, the characteristics of the things of the three times vanish into basic space!
sarva vighnān stvaṃ bhaya a a a
Oṃ. Sublime Lady, Possessor of Longevity,
Together with the retinue of family assemblies that you emanate,
Rūpakāyas who appear magically in any appropriate form to train beings
From within the dharmakāya beyond arising,
Now is the time for your samaya of great compassion!
From the maṇḍala of the unchanging body
Grant us the siddhi of vajra longevity!
From the maṇḍala of unceasing speech
Grant us the siddhi of indestructible life!
From the maṇḍala of undeluded wisdom mind
Grant us the siddhi of a life of clear light!
From the maṇḍala of unfathomable enlightened qualities
Grant us the siddhi of a life for accomplishing all we envision!
From the maṇḍala of unimpeded enlightened activities
Grant us the siddhi of a life to train beings as required!
Grant us the siddhi of the four ordinary activities!
In particular, grant us the accomplishment of the ten powers! 5
And grant us the unparalleled, supreme accomplishment!
oṃ tāre tuttāre ture hrīḥ bhrūṃ vajra jñāna ayuṣe svāhā
kāya vāk citta guṇa karma sarva siddhi phala ho
Hoḥ. In the maṇḍala of the Sublime Lady,
All mistakes of not performing correctly
Offerings, samādhis, activities and so on,
We confess in the state of innate luminosity.
a a a
A. The samayasattvas, rigpa’s natural display,
Are of one taste, beyond any possible separation or reunion,
Within the expanse of the basic space of self-arising primordial wisdom,
So all their features, like face and hands, dissolve into all-pervading space.
a a a
Tāṃ. Once again, like a rainbow appearing in the sky,
I arise in the form of the Lady of Immortality;
Appearances, sounds and thoughts,
Arise as deity and mantra, and the play of great wisdom.
oṃ āḥ hūṃ
Hoḥ. The accumulations of the wisdom of primordial purity,
And the accumulation of merit based on interdependent origination,
I dedicate within the space of the essence of enlightenment,
The uncompounded expanse in which the the two accumulations are indivisible.
From now on and in all my lives,
May I always be in your care, exalted Lady,
And with the siddhis of longevity and wisdom,
May I spontaneously accomplish all that truly benefits myself and others.
Oṃ. Holders of the dynamic energy of awareness in the mind-direct, symbolic, and aural lineages,
Vidyādhara gurus, let auspiciousness abound!
You who appear in infinite mudrās of peaceful and wrathful deities,
Yidam deities, let auspiciousness abound!
You who assist the yogis in increasing great bliss,
Outer and inner ḍākinīs, let auspiciousness abound!
You who judge good and bad and dispel obstacles,
Ocean of dharma protectors, let auspiciousness abound!
May all be auspicious for the short-term activities of four types
To fulfil the twofold benefit,
While ultimately, may all be auspicious for the direct experience
Of the immortal wisdom body.