A Prayer to the Vidyādhara Gurus from A Shower of Precious Blessings: A Garland of Supplications to Guru Rinpoche, Embodiment of All Refuge Objects, and to the Three Roots and Lineage Masters
Emaho—O wonder! In the immaculate dharmadhātu realm,
Within the palace of dharmakāya, pure and unborn,
Dharmakāya Samantabhadra: to you I pray!
Bless me that I may realize the birthless Dharma body!
In the Densely-Ornamented Realm of Akaniṣṭha,
Within the mirror-like palace of immaculate ignorance,
Buddha Vairocana: to you I pray!
Bless me that I may realize the utter purity of ignorance!
In the eastern pure realm of Profound Joy,
Within the emptiness palace of immaculate anger,
Buddha Vajrasattva: to you I pray!
Bless me that I may realize the utter purity of anger!
In the southern pure realm of Glorious Beauty,
Within the equality palace of immaculate pride,
Buddha Ratnasambhava: to you I pray!
Bless me that I may realize the utter purity of pride!
In the western pure realm of Great Bliss,
Within the discriminating palace of immaculate desire,
Buddha Amitābha: to you I pray!
Bless me that I may realize the utter purity of desire!
In the northern pure realm of Fulfilled Activity,
Within the all-accomplishing palace of immaculate jealousy,
Buddha Amoghasiddhi: to you I pray!
Bless me that I may realize the utter purity of jealousy!
Eight male bodhisattvas, thousand buddhas,
Eight female bodhisattvas, and all others
Of the saṃbhogakāya and nirmāṇakāya pure realms—to you I pray!
Let my mindstream be blessed and others' mindstreams liberated!
Bless us so enlightened activity spreads throughout the ten directions!
Precious Padmākara, venerable guru who singly embodies
All sugatas throughout the three times;
Eight ācāryas and sole mother Lady Tsogyal;
Lotsawas, paṇḍitas, lord and subjects—to you I pray!
Bless me that by perfecting generation and completion,
And actualizing the subtle channels and winds,
I attain the siddhi of immortality and accomplish rainbow body in this very life!
Succession of Dharma kings, major and minor tertöns,
Vidyādhara gurus of the Scriptural and Treasure Lineages,
All gurus of all traditions of India and Tibet—to you I pray!
Bless me that pure perception and diligence may grow!
Teacher Vajrasattva of the saṃbhogakāya realm;
Śrāvakas who listen to the Muni; Vajrapāṇi;
Murub Tsenpo, bodhisattva in Padmasambhava’s presence;
Supreme Sangyé Lingpa, sovereign of profound treasures;
Re-emanated vidyādhara, Mingyur Dorjé;
Vidyādhara Chokgyur Lingpa, who holds the transmission of Guru Drakpo;
And future treasure revealers Drimé Künden
And Sangyé Möpachen—to you I pray!
Grant your blessings that all encounters be beneficial!
Assembly of vidyādhara gurus, grant your blessings!
Vidyādhara Sangyé Lingpa, dispel all obstacles!
Mighty Mingyur Dorjé, grant the siddhis!
Vidyādhara Chokgyur Lingpa, perpetuate enlightened activity!
Upon us, the disciples whom you embrace with care,
Gracious lord gurus, bestow your blessings!
Help us attain awakening within this very life!