The Heart of the Mahāyāna Path A Bodhisattva’s Prayer of Aspiration
Victorious buddhas and your heirs throughout the infinite worlds of the ten directions,
Together with all you sages, siddhas and vidyādharas of the past, present and future—
All you powerful and compassionate ones, turn your attention towards me,
And grant your blessings so that these aspirations of mine may be fulfilled!
All my own and others’ virtuous deeds in saṃsāra and nirvāṇa,
Together with my body, possessions and whatever is worthy of giving,
I offer in devotion, with respect and pure motivation,
To all you gurus, yidam deities and the noble assembly!
Before you all, these vast offering clouds of Samantabhadra
Multiply beyond imagining and extend to the very limits of existence.
As you accept them by means of your wisdom, love and power,
May your immaculate intentions be entirely fulfilled!
May the Buddhist teachings and noble holders of the doctrine,
As well as the oceanic hosts of guardians who protect the virtuous,
All strengthen and flourish, extending to the limits of space itself,
And through this, may beings' virtue and goodness forever increase!
Through this excellent practice of dedication and its effects,
May the hopes of all beings everywhere be realised,
So that they receive food, clothing, possessions, service, companions, sanctuary and more—
Whatever they wish for—by simply bringing it to mind!
In particular, may those with whom I have a positive or negative connection,
Those who act in ways that bring me benefit or harm,
As well as all those who are exhausted by the torments of the lower realms,
Swiftly come to find great bliss that is inexhaustible!
In short, by dedicating all virtuous actions from the past, present or future,
In the manner of the victorious buddhas and their heirs,
Without conceptual reference and in keeping with illusion,
May all beings attain perfect awakening!
For as long as I am yet to reach that final stage,
May I gain a human or divine birth complete with seven qualities, 1
And may I possess the wondrous riches of the noble,
And rely on the infallible precious jewels as my refuge!
May I follow and gratify an authentic spiritual teacher,
Observe the discipline and apply myself to study, reflection and meditation,
May I never be apart from bodhicitta, the spirit of awakening,
As I immerse myself in the oceanic conduct of the Buddha’s heirs!
May any stains on my conduct, misdeeds of body, speech or mind,
Any failure to accord with the view, meditation and action
Of the vidyādharas, or the code of individual liberation or bodhisattva vows,
Be eradicated entirely through applying the most excellent of remedies!
In all situations, may I entirely recall my past lives,
And train with diligence in the utterly pure path.
May I always uphold the infinite ways of the Dharma
Of the victorious buddhas and never allow them to decline.
May I always realise the points of the profound and vast,
Which are conveyed in all the resultant vehicles,
And fully traverse the paths and stages,
So that I perfect the qualities of abandonment and realization!
In this and all my future lives,
No matter where I might take birth,
May I never deviate, even for a moment,
From my singular focus on altruistic thoughts and deeds.
May all that the inhabitants of the three worlds find undesirable or unharmonious,
Both the causes and their effects, all ripen fully on me alone!
And may all my own virtuous deeds of past, present and future
Become causes for the benefit and happiness of incarnate beings!
When working directly or indirectly for the welfare of others,
May all outer, inner and secret obstacles, including evil spirits,
Corrupting companions, illness and harmful influences,
Become supports for awakening, like wind that fans the forest flames!
All at once, may I perfectly embrace
The ocean-like activity of the victorious ones and their heirs throughout the three times,
Such deeds as making offerings to buddhas and ripening sentient beings
In all the pure and impure realms throughout the ten directions.
Having set out upon the great secret path that is unsurpassed,
And realized the profound points of the path that swiftly matures and liberates,
May I lead beings through vast, ocean-like skilful action
And establish them all at the level of Vajradhara!