The Single Mudrā A Daily Practice for the Awesome Ones’ Assembly (Palchen Düpa), the Heart Practice of the Awareness-Holders 1. The Main Part 1. The Preliminaries of Gathering the Accumulations 2. The Main Part of Generation and Recitation 1. The Generation of the Deity 2. The Mantra Recitation 1. The Approach 2. The Accomplishment 3. The Concluding Practices The Dissolution and Re-emergence Dedication 2. An Additional Practice
The Guru in the form of the deities of the maṇḍala of Awesome Ones, the expanse of the nine wisdoms, appears in the sky before me— vajra samāja !
Hoḥ. I prostrate to the vajra master,
Glorious embodiment of the buddhas of past, present and future!
With a mind free from all duality,
I take refuge in the Three Jewels, the objects of reliance!
I request that you accept these pure offerings,
Both actual and envisioned.
My faults, the hindrances that cut the flow of accomplishments, 1
I confess without exception.
In all those actions throughout the ten directions, done without attachment,
And free from concepts of subject, object and action, I rejoice!
I awaken the perfect mind set upon awakening,
Pure and untainted by the four extremes.
To the bliss-gone ones, 2 mighty lords and sentient beings. 3
I offer my body for the threefold purpose. 4
Gathering the merits accumulated throughout all my lives,
I dedicate them to supreme enlightenment!
Hūṃ. Naturally arisen awareness, suchness devoid of self—
Its display is all-illuminating, great compassion, whose radiance is
The causal awareness—hūṃ. It purifies the world and beings.
The elements are assembled one above the other, with Mount Meru at the top.
On the outside is the protection circle of vajras.
The wrathful palace has perfect characteristics. In its centre,
Onto a seat of a beast, a haughty one, a lotus and sun,
The hūṃ descends and transforms into
A blue five-pronged vajra.
It transforms completely, perfect the moment I think of it, into
Mahottara Mighty Vajra Skull-Garland— 5
Dark blue in colour, with three heads, six hands,
And four legs spread in champion’s stance,
Trampling on the hips of the four Gyalgong demons.
His right face is white, stern and laughing,
His left is red, terrifying, with fangs bared,
And his central face is blue with a wrathful and majestic expression.
The supreme forms of the five families are complete on his crown.
A vajra garuḍa soars above his head.
He has nine eyes, his tongue curls, and he bares his fangs.
His first right hand holds a vajra,
The middle a khaṭvāṅga, and the last hand fire.
His first left hand holds a red skull-cup,
The middle a plough, and the last
An iron scorpion with nine heads.
All the charnel ground accoutrements are complete.
He is in union with the supreme consort Sky-Faced Lady— 6 Samantabhadrā. 7
Her right hand embraces him and holds a khaṭvāṅga,
Her left offers a skull- cup of desire filled with blood.
Her body is blue and adorned with ornaments.
Amidst a blazing expanse of apocalyptic fire,
They remain in the great bliss of the four joys.
The samaya and wisdom deities become indivisible.
I am Mahottara in union with his consort.
In my excellent heart, in the expanse of a lattice of light,
Upon a sun and moon—the union of clarity and emptiness—
Is Samantabhadra in union with his consort.
He sits in cross-legged vajra posture in meditative equipoise.
At his heart is the life-force of all the bliss-gone ones—
The three syllables, assembled one above the other, clearly visualised.
They radiate light, and all of appearance and existence
Awakens as the five primordial wisdoms.
oṃ āḥ hūṃ
In the heart of the wisdom king and queen in union, 8
Upon a lotus, sun and moon,
Is a golden vajra with nine prongs.
In the central prong is the concentration being 9 hūṃ.
In the eight prongs, beginning with the front, are
The first, the six cities, and the last. 10
All of them face the hūṃ in the centre,
And are extremely subtle and ablaze with light rays.
oṃ guru śrī vajrayakṣa krodha citta hūṃ
Enhancing the clear appearance of the deity and
The nail of radiating and absorbing are done alternately.
From the seed syllables of the mantra,
A string of mantras is emitted.
It exits the male deity and enters the mouth of the female deity.
It flows through the from of her body and from her secret space,
Enters the path of the vajra-jewel,
And dissolves into the life-force hūṃ at the heart.
Circling with light rays of great bliss,
Offerings are made to the victorious ones and all the jewel-like accomplishments
Gather and dissolve into oneself.
Once again light radiates, purifying the karma and emotions of beings.
The entire appearance of the palace and the deity
Dissolves in the natural state of primordial luminosity.
Once again, I arise in the illusory body of union,
Marked at my three places with the three vajra syllables.
vajra-rakṣa hūṃ
Through the positivity and merit of this, may I swiftly
Attain the realization of the Awesome Heruka, and thereby
Every single sentient being
Reach his state of perfection too.
They remain in the great bliss of the four joys.
From the point of union of the Awesome One and consort
Radiate dark blue hūṃ syllables
To the places in the vajra body.
They give birth to the herukas with their consorts and sons.
hūṃ hūṃ hūṃ hūṃ hūṃ hūṃ hūṃ hūṃ
Through the resounding of the great hūṃ mantra
The maṇḍala of wrathful kings is spontaneously present.
Within the expanse that blazes like apocalyptic fire,
Naturally arising, primordial wisdom appears as the gathering of wrathful ones.
At your head is Mañjuśrī Yamāntaka, yellow in colour.
His right hand holds a club, his left hand in the threatening mudrā.
At your throat is mighty Hayagrīva, red in colour.
His right hand holds a sword, his left a lotus.
At your heart is Vajra Heruka, 12 blue in colour.
His right hand holds a vajra, his left a skull-cup filled with blood.
At your navel is Vajrakīlaya, green in colour.
His two hands brandishing a dagger.
At your secret place is Unsurpassable Heruka. 13
Dark blue in colour, he holds a garuḍa and corpse-mace.
At your crown is Vajra Vidyādhara, white in colour.
His right hand holds a skull-mace, his left a bell.
At your right thigh is Tamer of the Arrogant, blue in colour. 14
His right hand holds a hammer, his left a short spear.
At your left thigh is Mighty Black One.
His right hand holds an iron hook, his left a snake-lasso.
All of them possess a retinue of the four families.
With their feet they trample upon the great male and female gods. 15
To symbolize unchanging reality the female deities are blue.
They hold a curved knife and a skull-cup, and embrace their male consorts.
At your limbs are the gatekeepers of the four families.
They hold, respectively, an iron-hook, lasso, iron shackles and bell.
These nine groups of maṇḍala deities,
All seven hundred and twenty-five,
Arise like the rays of the sun.
The colour of their bodies, implements and ornaments are all distinct,
Yet clearly visualized as the great completeness.
The samaya and wisdom deities become indivisible.
All deities of the gathering proclaim the all-embodying mantra, 16
With a terrible roar and rumbling.
Five-coloured light fills the three thousand-fold cosmos, through which
Diseases and evil spirits are pacified, lifespan and glory increase,
The three realms are magnetized, and beings liberated.
And we all attain the four levels of an awareness-holder.
oṁ vajracaṇḍa-sarvaḍuṣtāntaka hana daha paca hūṁ phaṭ