A Concise Ritual for the Kings’ Posts
raṃ yaṃ khaṃ
From within the pure basic space of all things,
There appears a mass of self-arisen offerings,
Immeasurable, like Samantabhadra’s offering clouds,
Filling the entire expanse of space.
oṃ vajra arghaṃ pādyaṃ puṣpe dhūpe āloke gandhe naividya śabda āh hūṃ
From my heart centre, rays of light stream forth to invite the Four Great Kings, together with their retinues, from the four directions of Mount Sumeru—vajra samājaḥ!
jaḥ hūṃ baṃ hoḥ |
oṃ dhṛtarāṣtrāya svāhā | oṃ virūdhakāya svāhā | oṃ virūpākṣāya svāhā | oṃ vaiśravaṇāya svāhā | saparivāra idaṃ baliṃta khakha khāhi khāhi
oṃ caturmahārāja saparivāra arghaṃ pādyaṃ puṣpe dhūpe āloke gandhe naividya śabda pratīccha svāhā
To you who see the profound and the vast,
Dhṛtarāṣṭra and Virūḍhaka,
Virūpākṣa and Vaiśravaṇa—
The Four Great Kings of the east, south, west, and north–
I pay homage and offer you praise!
Enjoy this offering and gift of torma,
And bestow on us—practitioners and our retinues—
Good health, long life, and influence,
Glory, renown, and good fortune,
Immense enjoyments and luxury,
And the attainments of the activities—
Pacifying, increasing, and the rest!
Grant your protection to us, who hold the samaya!
Support us with all the siddhis!
Annihilate all untimely sickness and death,
All harmful forces and obstructing spirits!
Crush all negative dreams, negative signs,
Negative deeds and all wrongdoers!
Bring peace to the world and bountiful harvests,
May grains and livestock be ever more plentiful,
A source of every happiness and good,
May all that we wish for be accomplished.
oṃ supra tiṣṭha vajraye svāhā
May this very place itself enjoy happiness and peace, at dusk and at dawn!
May midday too be delightful and comfortable!
May the auspiciousness of the Three Jewels be ever-present,
Causing peace and happiness throughout day and night!
For anything lacking or incomplete,
Or beyond my ability to perform—
Whatever mistakes I have committed,
Please bear witness and forgive them all!
Oṃ. You who act for the welfare of sentient beings
And bestow accomplishment accordingly,
Please depart for your buddhafields,
But return, again and again!
vajra muḥ