Divine Music Words of Encouragement for the Authentic Path
Guardians of this land of snowy peaks, the arena of bodhisattvas of the three families,
Abbot and master, and emanated translators and paṇḍitas,
And all the life-pillars of the teachings of sūtra and mantra,
To all who have come and who are yet to come, I pay homage!
In particular, those who through the three spheres of activity
Were unparalleled in their work for the Buddhist teachings,
And who reached accomplishment through the great secret path:
Five venerable forefathers, protect and nurture my mind!
Let the river of elixir that is the oral transmission from Vajradhara,
Carefully channeled through the three forms of validity 1
As private instructions, pith instructions and tantras
Collect, through the guru’s kindness, in the vessel of my mind.
Although my training in former lives was meagre,
Still, through the teacher’s persistent care in this life,
I acquired the capacity to discern Dharma from non-Dharma,
And the intelligence to seek out genuine teachings.
Through the brilliant light of the deity and guru’s compassion,
As if a lamp had been held aloft in the darkness,
I encountered the instructions of the great secret Path With Its Fruit,
And circumstances fell into place positively and without hindrance.
If the narrow-minded regard even a shred of gain and honour
As a form of blessing from the gods,
Then practising this excellent vajra path without difficulty
Surely cannot be anything other than divine advantage!
Ema! I entered into the Dharma of the Ancient Translations, the Great Secret,
And learned a little of the works of scholars from the noble land.
Through investigating with a mind free from partiality
I developed trust in the glorious Sakya teachings.
Still, as I continue to practise the teachings of the victorious buddhas
With a mind that is free from notions of ‘I’ or ‘you’,
May the buddhas and their heirs grant their blessings and strength from basic space,
So that all my connections may become meaningful!
Kyeho! Friends, in the country known as the land of the āryas,
At Nālandā, the source of authentic Dharma,
The crown ornament of a hundred thousand piṭaka-holders
Was the renowned master Śrī Dharmapāla. 2
In his wisdom form he guided directly
The great benevolent Sakya master,
Who cared for his own disciples, including the reverend brothers, 3
Perfectly transmitting the Hevajra root tantra.
As for this view and the tenets of the glorious Sakya,
As well as the generation and perfection cultivated in four sessions for the Time of the Path— 4
These are the source of all teaching and accomplishment.
Even at the cost of one’s life, therefore, they must never be forsaken.
Studying this, the king of tantras,
Through the fine explanations of the venerable brothers
And according to Virūpa’s pith instructions,
Is akin to studying a hundred scriptures all at once.
Listen again, my companions in the Dharma,
It must be true that someone who follows a fool from a young age
Will lack trust in the Dharma.
Consider this one who has followed the learned!
Now, unless you exert yourself swiftly,
The sun of the Buddhist teachings will set beyond the western peaks,
And when the holders of the teachings, guides to beings, disappear,
There will be a risk of straying onto false paths and falling into the abyss.
There is no end to worldly activity, even in death.
Just look at how we spend our human lives relentlessly.
However much you think about it, it is only reasonable
That you cast aside distraction and apply yourself to these excellent works day and night.
‘I’ll do this tomorrow, that the day after, and after that, this.’—
With such thoughts unproductive activity never ends.
Having taken control of your own agenda, then,
Will you not study this excellent scripture?
Unless you seek to bring about your own improvement,
Even your own parents could never bring you to the Dharma.
And since the scriptural teachings are especially weak,
No one will encourage you to pursue Dharma study.
The path of the vajra vehicle is rarely encountered.
Even hearing its words dispels age-old obscurations,
Just as the rays of the sun melt away the frost.
Motivate yourself however you can and apply yourself to this king of tantras!
You might suggest that what I have said deserves elaboration,
But what would be the point of further remarks if no one is listening?
Without betraying my own mind, therefore,
I offer this simply as an account of my own situation.
Through the virtue of stating this with pure intention,
May the teaching and practice of Buddhadharma in general
And of the non-dual Hevajra in particular illumine the world
And continue evermore unto the most distant limits of time.