The Sage's Harmonious Song of Truth A Prayer for the Flourishing of the Non-Sectarian Teachings of the Buddha
Embodiment of the four kāyas, omniscient Lord Buddha ‘Kinsman of the Sun,’
Amitāyus, Amitābha, supreme and noble Avalokiteśvara,
Mañjughoṣa, Vajrapāṇi the Lord of Secrets, and Tārā who wears a wrathful frown,
The victorious buddhas and all their bodhisattva heirs,
Seven Great Patriarchs, 1 Six Ornaments 2 and Two Supreme Ones, 3
Eighty Mahāsiddhas and Sixteen Arhats 4 —
All of you who seek only to benefit the teachings and beings,
All you great beings without exception, turn your attention towards us!
The supreme sage Śākyamuni spent countless aeons
Completing the two accumulations of merit and wisdom,
To attain perfect wisdom, love and capacity. Through the power of this truth,
Long may the complete teachings of the Buddha continue to flourish!
Khenpo Śāntarakṣita, Guru Padmasambhava and the Dharma King Trisong Deutsen,
Were the first to open up the land of snowy mountains to the light of Buddha’s teachings.
Through the power of their aspirations and those of all the translators, paṇḍitas, vidyādharas and disciples,
Long may these teachings of the Buddha flourish in the Land of Snows!
In the treasure-palace that is the Buddha’s extensive teachings,
Lie great treasures of Dharma, the profound class of sādhanas,
And the Heart-Essence, profound and vast, sparkling with brilliant light.
Long may these teachings of the Buddha flourish in the Land of Snows!
Within the vast expanse of primordial purity and the essence of luminosity,
All the phenomena of saṃsāra and nirvāṇa are perfectly complete—this pinnacle vehicle
Is the method for reaching the primordial stronghold of Samantabhadra.
Long may these teachings of the Buddha flourish in the Land of Snows!
The two major lineages—profound view and vast conduct—
Are both complete within the treasury of instructions mastered by Atiśa,
The tradition of practical instructions passed on by Dromtön Gyalwé Jungné.
Long may these teachings of the Buddha flourish in the Land of Snows!
The Words of the Buddha gathered in the three scriptural collections were
Wonderfully arranged into instructions for beings of the three levels of spiritual capacity,
As the golden rosary of Kadampa teachings, with their four deities and three sets of texts. 5
Long may these teachings of the Buddha flourish in the Land of Snows!
The jewel treasury of the Kagyü teachings is a source of inspiration and blessings,
Coming from the translator Marpa, Milarepa Shepé Dorje and the rest,
A marvellous system of instruction from an unrivalled succession of masters.
Long may these teachings of the Buddha flourish in the Land of Snows!
All the phenomena of saṃsāra and nirvāṇa are the radiance of the natural mind,
And mind itself, free from complexity, is realized as the essence of the dharmakāya.
This is the great seal, Mahāmudrā, pervading all that appears and exists throughout saṃsāra and nirvāṇa.
Long may these teachings of the Buddha flourish in the Land of Snows!
Learned masters who guard the Buddha’s teachings through explanation, debate and composition,
On the key instructions of hundreds of texts for the outer and inner sciences, sūtra and mantra,
This is the Sakyapa tradition of the great compassionate teachers from the divine family of Khön.
Long may these teachings of the Buddha flourish in the Land of Snows!
The extremely profound and crucial points of the practice of Lamdré—the Path and its Fruit—,
With its four criteria of validity, 6 have been passed on in a whispered aural lineage,
The tradition of special instructions coming from Virūpa, the powerful lord of yogins.
Long may these teachings of the Buddha flourish in the Land of Snows!
Teachings of the victorious Lobzang Drakpa, skilfully combining the profound and the clear,
By perfectly uniting the profound view of the Middle Way
And the two-phase approach of the great and secret Vajra vehicle.
Long may these teachings of the Buddha flourish in the Land of Snows!
This is the supreme and noble tradition for practising,
Without mistake, the essence and gradual stages of the path,
Which incorporates all three piṭakas and all four classes of tantra,
Long may these teachings of the Buddha flourish in the Land of Snows!
The combined traditions of Butön and Jonang, the transmission of instruction and realization,
For the outer, inner and alternative cycles of the Kālacakra Tantra,
Including unique explanations, not to be found in any other sūtra or tantra.
Long may these teachings of the Buddha flourish in the Land of Snows!
In short, may all the teachings of the Buddha in the Land of Snows
Flourish long into the future— the ten great pillars of the study lineage, 7
And the chariots of the practice lineage, such as Shijé (‘Pacifying’) and the rest,
All of them rich with their essential instructions combining sūtra and mantra.
May the lives of the masters who uphold these teachings be secure and harmonious!
May the sangha preserve these teachings through their study, meditation and activity! 8
May the world be filled with faithful individuals intent on following these teachings!
And long may the non-sectarian teachings of the Buddha continue to flourish!
Throughout all the worlds, may war, conflict, famine and evil thoughts or actions
Be eradicated entirely, so that even their names are no longer heard!
May the minds of beings be infused with love! May signs of virtue increase throughout the environment and beings!
And may an ocean of happiness and wellbeing pervade throughout the whole of space!
From this moment on, may I follow the complete path of the teachings,
Arouse the vast motivation of bodhicitta, and exert myself
In study, reflection and meditation upon the profound view,
So that I swiftly reach the ground of temporary and ultimate happiness!
For the sake of all sentient beings, who are as infinite as space,
May I engage in the activity of the buddhas and bodhisattvas,
Without ever feeling discouraged or falling prey to laziness,
Always remaining joyful, with confidence and enthusiasm!
May my body, my possessions and all my merits,
Contribute towards the happiness of beings—my very own mothers,
And may whatever sufferings they are forced to undergo,
All ripen directly upon me!
May all who see me, hear my voice, think of me or put their trust in me,
Experience the most glorious happiness and virtue!
And may even those who insult, punish, strike or disparage me,
Gain the good fortune to set out upon the path to awakening!
In short, for as long as space endures,
And for as long as there is suffering among beings,
May I too remain, to bring them benefit and happiness,
In all ways, directly and also indirectly!