Words of Truth An Aspiration for the Spread of the Noble Gendenpa Tradition
You are the great father who engenders all the victorious buddhas,
Yet resolved to uphold the Buddhadharma in infinite realms
As a bodhisattva heir to the victors—through the power of this truth,
May the victorious Lobzang Drakpa's teachings flourish and spread!
Long ago, in the presence of Indraketu,
You made your vow, and the buddhas and their bodhisattva heirs
Praised your great courage—through the power of this truth,
May the victorious Lobzang Drakpa's teachings flourish and spread!
So that the lineage of pure view and conduct might develop,
You presented a crystal rosary as an offering to Śākyamuni,
Who gave you a dharma conch and prophesied your future—through the power of this truth,
May the victorious Lobzang Drakpa's teachings flourish and spread!
Pure in your view, free from the extremes of eternalism and nihilism;
Pure in your meditation, undimmed by lethargy and dullness;
Pure in your conduct, acting in accordance with Buddha’s words;
May the victorious Lobzang Drakpa's teachings flourish and spread!
Learned, due to your vast study and extensive enquiry,
Venerable, through having applied the points of study to your character,
Kind-hearted, due to dedicating all towards the teachings and beings—
May the victorious Lobzang Drakpa's teachings flourish and spread!
In your certainty that all teachings, provisional and definitive,
Are practical instructions applicable to the individual,
You eliminated all forms of unwholesome conduct—
May the victorious Lobzang Drakpa's teachings flourish and spread!
You listened to explanations of the scriptural Dharma of the three collections,
Practised the three trainings, the doctrine of realization,
And set a wondrous example of life-long learning and accomplishment—
May the victorious Lobzang Drakpa's teachings flourish and spread!
Outwardly peaceful and subdued through the śrāvakas' conduct;
While inwardly possessing the assurance of the two-stage yoga;
You perfectly reconciled the excellent paths of sūtra and mantra—
May the victorious Lobzang Drakpa's teachings flourish and spread!
To combine the emptiness that is explained in the causal vehicle
With the great bliss achieved through the fruitional vehicle’s methods
Is the very heart and quintessence of the eighty-four thousand sections of Dharma—
May the victorious Lobzang Drakpa's teachings flourish and spread!
Chief among the guardians of the paths of the three types of individual—
Mahākāla who is swift to act, Vaiśravaṇa, Kālarūpa and the rest— 1
Through the power and strength of an ocean of oath-bound Dharma guardians,
May the victorious Lobzang Drakpa's teachings flourish and spread!
In short, may the lives of the glorious masters be secure,
May the world be filled with learned, venerable holders of the teachings,
And may the power and influence of Dharma benefactors increase,
So that the victorious Lobzang Drakpa's teachings flourish and spread!