Prayer of Aspiration 1
Homage to the Guru!
Oceanic victorious ones, residing throughout all
The ten directions and three times, consider me!
Grant your blessings so that this, my aspiration,
May be fulfilled just so, without impediment.
Lord of Sages, protector Mañjughoṣa,
Invincible Vajrapāṇi, Maitreya and the rest,
Victors and your heirs, great bodhisattvas,
Saraha, Nāgārjuna, Asaṅga and the rest,
Great pioneers who beautify this world,
Padmākara, Vimala, Vairotsana, Dharma King,
Ma, 2 Nyak, 3 , Kawa, 4 Chok, 5 Lord Atiśa,
Rinchen Zangpo, great Ngok Lotsāwa and the rest—
Ocean-like hosts of scholars and adepts
Whose excellent words, as they appeared in India and Tibet,
Were elucidated through teaching and through practice.
Though my own unerring study, contemplation and meditation
On the Words of sūtra and mantra, the treatises and instructions,
May I be of service to these teachings of the Victorious Ones.
May the delightful mansion of renunciation and discipline
Be filled with the riches of altruistic concern and bodhicitta,
The victory banner of secret mantra Vajrayāna raised aloft,
And the world throng with holders of the three sets of vows.
As the twofold saṅgha covers the surface of the Earth,
May all its members maintain perfect harmony,
Exert themselves in the activities of renunciation and study,
And cause the Sugata’s teachings to flourish throughout the ten directions.
May the savage thoughts and actions of asuras and barbarians,
Who are hostile to the teachings, be brought to an end.
And through the force of mighty Raudracakrin’s compassion,
May we attain perfect victory in the battle with evil forces.
May all the countries of this vast world be rich with tenfold virtue,
May all the disharmony and darkness of these times be pacified,
And may the youthful sun of happiness dawn
To shine its myriad rays of goodness and wellbeing.
May all who are connected with me purify misdeeds and obscurations,
Pacify their suffering and increase longevity, merit and wisdom.
May they attain the level of supreme awakening,
And gain mastery of an ocean of immaculate qualities.