Opening the Door to a Pure Realm An Aspiration Towards Abhirati
In the eastern direction there is a buddhafield,
Manifest Joy, a realm of oceanic qualities,
Where the immaculate tathāgata King Akṣobhya,
Who is entirely freed from all impurity, resides.
With the form of one who protects the whole world including the gods,
He blazes with the myriad lights of marvellous signs and marks.
Composed, with the splendour of ocean-vast elements of discipline,
He manifests the qualities of exceptionally sublime forbearance.
A lord of the ten powers together with his saṅgha assembly,
As numerous as atoms in realms beyond number.
Before them all, I pray with a mind filled with devotion.
As I take refuge in you from now until I attain awakening,
May all those with whom I have a karmic connection, good or bad,
As soon as they leave behind the constituents of this life,
Be touched by the light of your radiant vajra form,
And may even the slightest such contact dispel the myriad miseries
Of the wearisome and oppressive intermediate state.
With the cessation of all mental afflictions at the moment of death,
May the light of this pure realm, which is a treasury
Of infinitely vast virtue and perfect goodness, emerge.
And in that moment when the sun-like sugatas and their heirs
Dawn within the clear, sky-like expanse of my own mind,
May all darkness of hostility, craving, karma and the afflictions
Be banished entirely, and in that direct experience of light,
Before the jewelled tree that pervades the trichiliocosm,
May I meet the lord of conquerors, liberation's pinnacle,
Whose miraculously-made music reaches every realm,
And may all the distress within my mind be pacified.
May I learn of millions upon millions of means to enter the Dharma
Of the wondrous, sublime vehicle from the excellent, vase-like mouths
Of the thus-gone buddhas and retain them all in my memory,
And may I gain the power to enchant the realms of the ten directions.
In accordance with your liberational life, O protector,
May I too become one who enters unimaginable realms,
Whose name alone, when heard, brings purity of discipline,
And who is victorious, having entirely vanquished the lower realms.
Through the unimpeded power of my mind,
May I lead all those whom I must train
To the realm of the great sage and guide, Vajra Akṣobhya,
And there bring them to the level of the buddhas and their heirs.
In short, may I swiftly accomplish all the wonders
Of the tathāgata who established the realm of Abhirati
And made prayers of aspiration,
And may I attain the level of a Dharma sovereign.