Fast Track to Happiness and Peace A Very Brief Meditation and Recitation of the Medicine Buddha Refuge and Bodhicitta The Visualization The Mantra Practice Offerings Praise Request Invitation to Depart Dedication
Namo guru-bhaiṣajya-rājāya (Homage to the Guru King of Healing!)
In the Buddha, Dharma and supreme Saṅgha
I take refuge till enlightenment is realized.
Through the merit of giving and the other perfections
May I attain buddhahood for the sake of all beings.
May all sentient beings enjoy happiness and the causes of happiness,
Be free from suffering and the causes of suffering,
May they never be separated from true happiness devoid of suffering,
And may they dwell in boundless equanimity, free from attachment and aversion.
oṃ svabhāva śuddhāḥ sarvadharmāḥ svabhāva śuddho ‘haṃ
Appearing out of emptiness, on a lotus and moon seat
My own mind is the syllable hūṃ, sending out light To accomplish the benefit of myself and others.
The light returns, and I transform into the Medicine Buddha.
My body is deep blue in colour with one face and two hands;
The right, in the gesture of supreme giving, holds the arura fruit,
The left, in meditation pose, cradles an alms-bowl full of nectar.
Resplendent, radiant with major and minor marks of perfection, and clad in the three Dharma robes,
I sit with legs crossed in the vajra posture.
On my right stands the red bodhisattva Sunlight,
His left hand holding a lotus on which rests the sun.
On my left is the white bodhisattva Moonlight;
His left hand holds a lotus on which is the moon.
Their right hands form the mudrā of generosity.
Adorned with all the jewel ornaments and silken garments,
They stand on lotus and moon discs, in reverent attendance on the Medicine Buddha.
The three centres of the Medicine Buddha and bodhisattvas are marked with the three syllables,
From which light streams out to invoke all the buddhas of the ten directions
Who appear in the form of Medicine Buddhas
In the sky in front of me: vajra samājaḥ
With jaḥ hūṃ baṃ hoḥ they dissolve inseparably into me.
In my heart on a moon disc is hūṃ, encircled by the mantra māla ,
Which sends out light to make offerings to the exalted ones and purify all beings of the two obscurations.
The light returns, bringing back all the compassion, power and grace of the buddhas and bodhisattvas,
Transforming my whole being with their blessings.
tadyathā | oṃ bhaiṣajye bhaiṣajye mahā-bhaiṣajye rāja-samudgate svāhā
oṃ bhaiṣajya rāja saparivāra arghaṃ pādyaṃ puṣpe dhūpe āloke gandhe naivedye śabda āḥ hūṃ
Transcendent accomplished conqueror, for all of us your compassion is equal and the same.
Just hearing your name removes the suffering of the lower realms,
And cures the diseases of the three poisons:
Medicine Buddha, shining with lapis lazuli light, to you I bow.
Transcendent accomplished victor, thus-gone one, foe destroyer,
Perfectly enlightened Medicine Buddha:
Grant me and all infinite sentient beings
The siddhis, common and supreme.
oṃ vajra muḥ
The two bodhisattvas and lotus and moon disc seats melt into light and dissolve into me.
I imagine my three centres are marked with oṃ, āḥ and hūṃ.
Through this merit may I swiftly
Accomplish the Buddha of Medicine,
And lead every single sentient being
To that state of perfection too.