Guru Yoga Based on the Dü Sum Sangyé Prayer Taking Refuge The Visualization The Invocation The Eight-Branch Offering The Accumulation The Dissolution The Dedication
In the Buddha, the Dharma and the Supreme Assembly
I take refuge until I attain enlightenment.
Through the merit of practising generosity and so on,
May I attain buddhahood for the benefit of all beings.
Emaho! Lotus Light of Cāmara’s Mount Glory,
Appears naturally, a scene inconceivably vast.
At its centre we reside as fair Lady Tsogyal, Tibetan-dressed,
Poised in meditation, and holding a nectar-filled skull-cup.
Before us, upon a lion throne, lotus, sun and moon
Is our root teacher, the Vajra-Holder of Uḍḍiyāna:
Guru Padmasambhava, the Dispeller of Obstacles.
Fair with ruddy glow, he holds in his hands a vajra
And skull-cup with long-life vase, with khaṭvāṅga at his left breast.
He wears the lotus crown, a secret gown,
Red dress, brocade cloak, and the three Dharma robes—
He is a majestic presence, in the posture of royal ease.
Adorning his crown is Tsokyé Dorjé, Lake-Born Vajra, fair and ruddy.
He wields a vajra and skull-cup, is adorned with silks and jewels.
Embracing him is Mandāravā; she holds a knife and skull-cup.
At Guru Padmasambhava’s heart centre abides Guru Dewa Chenpo, Guru of Great Bliss.
In meditative pose, he holds a skull-cup filled with ambrosia, marked by baṃ .
At the centre of Guru Dewa Chenpo’s heart is the blue Dorjé Draktsal, Vajra Wrath.
With a single face, two arms, and wrathful attire, he holds vajra and bell.
Vajravārāhī embraces him, while wielding a knife and skull-cup.
From the three syllables that mark their three places
Light bursts forth, inviting the wisdom deities.
Hūṃ! In the north-west of the land of Oḍḍiyāna
In the heart of a lotus flower,
Endowed with the most marvellous attainments,
You are renowned as the ‘Lotus-born’,
Surrounded by many hosts of ḍākinīs.
Following in your footsteps,
I pray to you: Come, inspire me with your blessing!
guru padma siddhi hūṃ
I prostrate to the vajra master,
Glorious embodiment of the buddhas of past, present and future!
With a mind free from all duality,
I take refuge in the Three Jewels, the objects of reliance!
I request that you accept these pure offerings,
Both actual and envisioned.
My faults, the hindrances that cut the flow of siddhis,
I confess without exception.
In all those actions throughout the ten directions, done without attachment,
And free from concepts of subject, object and action, I rejoice!
I awaken the perfect bodhicitta,
Pure, untainted by the four extremes. 2
To the sugatas, mighty lords and sentient beings 3
I offer my body for the threefold purpose. 4
Gathering the merits accumulated throughout all my lives,
I dedicate them to supreme enlightenment!
Embodiment of buddhas of past, present and future, Guru Rinpoche;
Master of all siddhis, Guru of Great Bliss;
Dispeller of all obstacles, Wrathful Subjugator of Māras;
To you I pray: inspire me with your blessing,
So that outer, inner and secret obstacles are dispelled
And all my aspirations are spontaneously fulfilled.
oṃ āḥ hūṃ vajra-guru-padma siddhi hūṃ
oṃ āḥ hūṃ vajra-guru-padma tötreng tsal vajra-samaya jaḥ siddhi-phala hūṃ āḥ
Streaming from the syllables at the Guru’s three places
Immeasurable forms identical to the Guru,
Strings of mantras, hand implements, light-rays,
And cascades of ambrosia,
Dissolve into our three places in sequence, then all at once.
Our obscurations are purified; we gain empowerment and siddhis.
The Guru melts into light, which then dissolves into us.
Own awareness is seen as the expression of the four-kāya Guru—
Maintain this realisation.
In all my lives, may I never be separated from the perfect lama,
And having benefited fully from the splendour of the Dharma,
May I perfect the qualities of the five paths and ten bhūmis,
And swiftly attain the sublime level of Vajradhara!