Eliminator of All Delusory Perception A Prayer to Guru Dewa Chenpo, the Guru of Great Bliss
Emaho!
The essence, clear-light dharmakāya beyond the ordinary mind,
The nature, the sambhogakāya appearance of unceasing luminosity,
And the resonant power of awareness, the nirmāṇakāya that tames as appropriate—
Guru Padmasambhava in whom these three kāyas are indivisible,
Dewa Chenpo, omnipresent lord of oceanic maṇḍalas,
Mahāguru Padmasambhava,
To you I pray: confer your empowerments and blessings!
Lake-born lord, with mastery of the immortal vajra kāya,
You who display an inconceivable array of peaceful and wrathful guises,
The five kāyas, eight manifestations, twelve emanations and the rest—
Brother to an ocean of the ḍākinīs of three abodes,
My only source of refuge, lord Guru Padma,
Look upon this weary child calling out in sorrow,
Look with compassion, Orgyen Rinpoche,
Only friend and protector to the Tibetan people,
How could you ever desert us in your compassion?
There is disturbance of the elements, sickness, warfare and famine—
Beings are oppressed by various forms of suffering.
With the ocean of spirits and demonic forces in turmoil,
The holders of the teachings have passed on to other realms.
Study and practice, scripture and realization, are in decline.
Now dark rain clouds of unwholesome forces gather in the sky,
Amidst flashes of wrong view and the misty cloak of negativity,
Mistaken views resound like thunder, and the hail of unwholesome actions
Rains down, destroying the happiness of the teachings and beings.
At a time like this, let the fierce tempest of the Guru’s compassion
Cause the ocean of demonic forces to scatter and disperse.
Let the sun and moon of explanation and accomplishment
Light up the perfect expanse of the primordially pure dharmakāya.
Elevate the status of the teachings and those who uphold them,
And grant us the attainment of universal victory.
O Guru Rinpoche, source of refuge for this child of yours,
As I pray to you with single-pointed devotion and longing,
O father, do not let me slip from the embrace of your compassion.
Confer your blessings and empowerments, grant me attainments, ordinary and supreme,
Inspire me to gain the full power of experience, realization and awareness,
And let me be forever inseparable from you, lord Guru.
When I pass from this life, help me to proceed
To the great palace of Lotus Light on the Copper-Coloured Mountain of Glory,
There to enjoy every form of delight together with the hosts of vidyādharas and ḍākinīs,
Savour the Dharma of the Great Vehicle,
And attain perfect awakening together as one!