Cultivating the Pure Realm of Manifest Joy A Guru Yoga of Vajrasattva
oṃ mahā-śūnyatā-jñāna-vajra-svabhāvātmako 'ham
In the naturally emanated pure realm of Manifest Joy 1
Is a great palace, immeasurable and magnificent to behold.
In its centre, above my head, is a throne decorated with elephants,
On which  is seated my root guru, Vajra Akṣobhya.
He is brilliant white in colour, holding vajra and bell, and embracing the consort.
He has the nine peaceful demeanours and the thirteen adornments.
To this great embodiment of all buddha families
I pay homage. I take refuge and offer my body and possessions.
I openly acknowledge and confess impairments of the three vows and samayas.
I rejoice in the supreme merit of enlightenment.
I beseech you: Please turn the wheel of Dharma of the infinite vehicles.
Remain forever, I pray, as the wheel of ornaments.
Within the great purity of the three spheres, I dedicate all virtue.
With total trust and ardent devotion, I pray: please care for me!
From the supreme body’s vajra-ūrṇā maṇḍala,
The maṇḍalas of the three seats manifest in actuality.
As they grant the vase empowerment, my aggregates, elements and sense sources
Are ripened and blessed as fully perfected wheels of the three seats.
Through the maṇḍala of ewam’s play of union,
Melting brings about the vajra body, bliss the vajra speech,
And non-conceptuality the vajra mind.
Through bodhicitta and the ritual of threefold liberation,
The three supreme empowerments are actualized:
Wind-energy, mind, and obscurations of knowable things are vanquished all at once
In the space of the avadhūti . The supreme exemplary and actual joy
And the innate primordial wisdom are attained. The paths of seeing, meditation, and no-more-learning,
The basic space of unsurpassed wisdom,
And the qualities of the sugatagarbha are all perfected.
oṃ āḥ guru-vajra-satva rulu rulu hūṃ bhyo hūṃ
From the guru’s three places, white, red, and blue rays of light radiate out, gradually and then all together.
They dissolve into me in stages and all at once, and purify impairments and breakages of the samayas of body, speech and mind. I receive the four empowerments, and the four obscurations are purified.
The seeds of the four kāyas are planted in my mind.