Song of the Illusory Display The Lineage Prayer for the Heart-Essence of the Deathless Lake-Born Vajra
Primordial self-arisen protector, Boundless Light; 1
Treasure of infinite compassion, Lokeśvara;
Deathless wisdom kāya, Lake-Born Vajra—
I supplicate you all! Pray, grant the twofold siddhis!
Guardians of Tibet and Kham, sovereign father and son; 2
You who lit up the doctrine, faithful disciple Vairocana;
Companion who holds the secrets, Kharchen 3 Tsogyel:
I supplicate you all! Pray, grant the twofold siddhis!
Vajra dance incarnate from wisdom space,
Vimalamitra, pristine spiritual guide with a body of light,
All-pervasive, supreme, vidyādhara guru—
I supplicate you! Pray, grant the twofold siddhis!
Padma’s regent, Pema Garwang—‘Lotus Lord of Dance’; 4
Undisputed great treasure-revealer, Chokgyur Dechen Lingpa;
And all the destined heart-sons of the teaching transmissions—
I supplicate you all! Pray, grant the twofold siddhis!
Lake-Born Vajra and your jñāna-ḍākinī;
Mighty One and consort, the family sovereigns;
Avalokiteśvara, the three roots, and the oathbound ones—
I supplicate you all! Pray, grant the twofold siddhis!
Through the generation stage of seeing all possible appearance as the manifest ground,
May we naturally accomplish the vase empowerment, the practice of approach.
Through the blazing and dripping that ensues from leading the life-force and downward winds into the central channel,
May we perfect the secret empowerment, the practice of close approach.
Through the four joys arisen from the wisdom mudrā of self-appearance,
May we traverse with blissful ease the short-cut path of accomplishing the wisdom-knowledge empowerment!
By reaching the state of exhaustion through primordial purity and spontaneous presence,
May we attain the great accomplishment of the word empowerment!
Through devotion’s power, may our bodies and minds be freed from bondage,
So that we meet the Lake-Born Guru, self-awareness, in person,
And then establish all beings, infinite as space,
In the state of indestructible great bliss!