Mountain Smoke Offering from Accomplishing the Life Force of the Vidyādharas
Oṃ āḥ hūṃ!
The heart essence of all the sources of refuge of saṃsāra and nirvāṇa, who are as vast as space,
Powerful and wrathful vidyādhara, Padma Tötreng Tsal;
Within your body, all that appears and exists is the perfect buddha mandala:
In order to liberate all beings from saṃsāra, I take refuge in you!
In the ground of the luminous tiklé of supremely secret wisdom,
May the three obscurations of all beings be purified, and
With the four visions spontaneously perfected in the tiklé of the wisdom body, speech and mind,
May all beings be liberated into the youthful vase body! For this, I generate the heart and mind of bodhicitta.
To the primordial, unaltered nature of rigpa, I pay homage! And
The luminosity, transcending limits and dimensions, I offer!
In the expanse of the sameness of saṃsāra and nirvāṇa, I confess!
In the great exhaustion of all dharmas, beyond the ordinary mind, I rejoice!
Turn the wheel of the teachings of the spontaneously perfect Dzogpachenpo!
Stir the depths of saṃsāra, I pray!
In the absolute state, free of subject, object or activity, I dedicate!
Bhrūṃ! In the vast lustrous vessel, made of the essence of various jewels,
The samaya substances, all the desirable objects in worldly existence, are
Transformed into the nectar of wisdom through the blessing of the three seed syllables oṃ āḥ hūṃ,
So that all that appears and exists becomes an offering of all that is desirable.
This I offer to the lamas, yidams, ḍākinīs, dharmapālas and
All the mandalas of the buddhas of the ten directions,
To the local deities of this world, beings of the six realms and the guests to whom I owe karmic debts.
And especially to those who would steal my life and deplete my life force,
To the malicious jungpo demons who inflict sickness and obstacles,
Bad signs in dreams and all types of evil omens,
The eight classes of negative spirits, the masters of magical illusions,
And those to whom I owe karmic debts of food, place and wealth,
To forces that bring obscuration and madness, to the shades of men and women dead.
To all the spirits, térangs, ghouls and female ghosts!
Now all my karmic debts are paid, burnt in the scarlet flames.
Whatever each one desires, may the objects of their desires rain down:
For as far and as long as space exists
I dedicate an inexhaustible amount of sensual stimulants!
May my negative actions and obscurations accumulated in past, present and future,
And misuse of the offerings made to the Three Jewels, in devotion and for the dead,
Be purified in the fire of this sang offering!
Let its flames fill the entire universe and every minute particle of flame
Become an inexhaustible cloud of offerings like Samantabhadra’s
Pervading throughout all the buddha realms!
May these flames, offering-rays of five-coloured lights of wisdom,
Pervade throughout the six classes of beings, down to the Avīcī Hells,
The three realms of saṃsāra be liberated into the rainbow body,
And all sentient beings awaken into the heart of enlightenment!
With Oṃ āḥ hūṃ, make the offering a hundred, thousand, or several hundred thousand times.
All is purified into the three kāyas: the environment, a heavenly palace where
Dharmakāya, saṃbhogakāya and nirmāṇakāya—appearance and the form aggregates of existence
Melt into nectar, flooding the whole expanse of the sky with rainbow light.
Saṃsāra is liberated into nirvāṇa; this essence of immaculate nectar,
I share with all those who, from beginningless time until now,
Have been guests in worldly existence.
Having attained all the noble qualities of the stages, paths and fruition,
And dispelled all obstacles in view, meditation and action,
Within the sky-like space of Samantabhadra’s wondrous wisdom mind,
May we seize the stronghold of the youthful vase body!
And when at last the great ocean of saṃsāra is emptied;
May all beings attain buddhahood in the Lotus Net of Akaniṣṭa!
The sang offerings of the aggregates and elements blaze in vivid, brilliant splendour!
The sang offerings of red and white bodhicitta blaze in bliss and emptiness!
The sang offerings of emptiness and compassion fill the dharmadhātu!
Upon the ground of five-coloured vajra light of phenomenal existence, saṃsāra and nirvāṇa,
I offer the sang offering of spontaneously accomplished perfect buddhahood.
May all my karmic debts from the past be purified!
In the present so they do not remain in my mind-stream, I confess them!
In the future, may I never be drawn into the wheel of obscuration!
All impairments of the vows of individual liberation, bodhisattva precepts,
And samayas of the vidyādharas,
Conscious or unwitting, I openly admit.
May illness, harmful influence, obscurations and impurities be purified!
May this age of plague, famine and warfare be pacified!
May the attacks of invaders be repelled!
May the forces that create obstacles by inviting the spiritual teacher to leave this world be averted!
May inauspicious bad omens for the land of Tibet be averted!
May the planetary forces, nāgas and arrogant king-like spirits, who cut short the breath of life, be repelled!
May the eight great fears and sixteen lesser fears be overcome!
For me and all those around me, may all that is inauspicious be averted! 1
May the powers and strength of samaya-breakers and gongpo demons be averted!