The Swift Fulfilment of All Wishes Offering the Flag of Windhorse Gesar Hayagrīva Tsokdak Magyal Pomra
Ho! Within the all-pervading purity of primordial wisdom,
Appearances arise, unceasing, as the ornaments of my perception;
And the great flag of the windhorse, auspicious, sweet‑sounding far and wide,
Sends out, like Samantabhadra, a vast cloud of exquisite offerings.
Miraculous and mighty is the king of horses, Bālāha, 1
Adorned with the jewel of many kinds, he soars like the wind,
And travels, unimpeded with his indestructible strength, wherever we so wish.
From his four miraculous limbs, there spread out
In the four directions, a tiger, lion, garuḍa and dragon, taking flight and soaring in the sky.
Over the earth, in the air, and through the whole expanse of space,
Sounds of happiness ring out, of goodness, victory and accomplishment,
In songs of auspiciousness, with the resounding drumbeat of the gods,
And melodious strains of music. While flowers fall like rain,
Clouds of divine offerings pervade every direction,
And all that is excellent throughout the three worlds—
Auspiciousness, glory and riches—manifests spontaneously.
This vast offering treasure, containing all that could ever be wished for,
We offer to the root and lineage masters, the peaceful and wrathful yidam deities,
The ḍākinīs of the three places, and oath-bound Dharma protectors,
Dralas, wermas, wealth gods and treasure-keepers,
Local deities, masters of the earth, all who safeguard what is beneficial and wholesome,
And all you guests who care for and protect us—
Especially you, Gesar Norbu Dradul Tsal,
With your miraculous, wild and skilful vajra steed,
Your fearless warriors, ladies, attendants and envoys—
We pray to you, make offerings, praise and exalt you!
Your awesome majesty we glorify as high as the dharmadhātu!
You who magnetize all appearance and existence, deity of power,
‘Mighty Lotus’ Hayagrīva,
With all the deities of your mandala, attendants and emissaries—
We pray to you, make offerings, praise and exalt you!
Your awesome majesty we glorify as high as the dharmadhātu!
Glorious protector Gaṇapati, with your consort,
Protectors of body, speech and mind, and protectors of the eight classes in the ten directions,
Along with the drala Makpön Tsedzi Shuk—
We pray to you, make offerings, praise and exalt you!
Your awesome majesty we glorify as high as the dharmadhātu!
Great guardian of the eastern lands of Dokham,
Magyal Pomra, with your entourage and attendants,
Masang wermas and dralas, with all your ladies—
We pray to you, make offerings, praise and exalt you!
Your awesome majesty we glorify as high as the dharmadhātu!
We pray to you, make offerings, praise and exalt you!
By offering you these supremely delightful and pleasing gifts,
Let the forceful vajra wind of your power and strength,
For us practitioners and those around us,
Increase our life, prosperity, merit and the strength of our windhorse.
And with your actions, unimpeded in any way, make whatever we wish for come to be, just as we desire.
Transform everything that hinders and troubles us into an ally,
Hoist high the inspiring flag of auspiciousness and virtue,
Overcome all that oppose and stand against us,
And, with your enlightened activity, make us victorious over all!