The Merry Sea of Blessings A Guru Yoga of the Lord of Sages, Peerless Teacher of All, Including the Devas
Ah. In the sky before me, amidst vast billowing offering clouds,
Upon a jewelled throne supported by a lion, elephant,
Excellent horse and peacock,
And atop a thousand-petalled, multicoloured lotus
And sun and full moon seats,
Is my own root guru in the form of the great nirmāṇakāya Sage.
He is flawless and magnificent as a mountain of burnished gold,
Resplendent with the signs and marks, and wears the three dharma robes.
His right hand touches the earth; his left is in the gesture of equanimity.
And he sits upright with his legs crossed in the vajra posture.
Upon a fully blossomed lotus at his heart
Is the saṃbhogakāya teacher, the great Vajradhara,
The colour of sapphire and wearing a crown
As well as other jewel ornaments and silken garments.
As the union of means and wisdom, he holds a vajra and bell across his heart.
He is entirely filled with immaculate great bliss,
And in the centre of his heart, within a pavilion of light,
Is the dharmakāya Samantabhadra, vividly blue as an azure sky,
Naked and unadorned, and embracing the white Samantabhadrī.
A mass of light rays emanates from the body of the Lord of Sages,
Revealing the buddhas and bodhisattvas of the ten directions who gather
Like specks of dust in a sunbeam, all with three syllables at their three centres,
From which light radiates out to invite the wisdom-beings.
You are the protectors of all beings, every single one.
You are the deities who remorselessly destroy the māras and their forces.
You who know all things just as they are, in their true nature,
Enlightened ones, with your retinues, come now to this place!
Vajra samājaḥ! Jaḥ hūṃ baṃ hoḥ!
Supreme teacher, bhagavān, tathāgata, arhat, complete and perfect buddha, glorious conqueror, Śākyamuni, to you I bow!
To you I pay homage! In you I take refuge!
Peerless teacher, supreme guide, foremost of the Śākyas,
Omnipresent Vajradhara, complete with fivefold certainty,
And dharmakāya Samantabhadra, who is equal to space—
These three kāyas are indivisible in the supreme sage Siddhārtha.
If I pray to you now with heartfelt and single-pointed devotion,
Foremost of the Śākyas, grant me your blessings and attainments.
Vajradhara, arouse the wisdom of bliss and emptiness within me.
All-pervading lord Samantabhadra, let me remain in the ground of original freedom.
Cause me to perfect the aggregate of immaculate discipline,
To master every quality of the paths and stages without exception,
To attain the sacred awakening that is unconfined to existence or quiescence,
And to gain the capacity to empty the three realms of saṃsāra from their very depths.
oṃ āḥ guru vajradhara hūṃ
oṃ āḥ hūṃ
At Samantabhadra’s heart is a golden sphere of light,
Which illuminates the various realms.
Light shines out to accomplish beings’ twofold benefit,
Then returns and dissolves back into the sphere.
From the subtle, barely discernible
Sphere of great emptiness,
Fivefold spheres and other spheres by the hundred,
All marked with mantras, emerge to fill the whole of space.
They resonate with the spontaneous sound of dharmatā,
Perfect as the mantra of vajra sound and emptiness,
And return to dissolve into the original sphere,
Then fade into the dharmadhātu.
Sustain that experience of the three-kāya guru’s wisdom mind,
And settle without thoughts related to past, present or future.
Then, once again, from the hosts of the three-kāya deities,
Bodily light, mantra garlands, hand implements,
And streams of nectar all issue forth,
And dissolve into my own four centres,
Through which I purify obscurations, gain empowerment and siddhis,
And am infused with the blessings of the three-kāya guru.
Finally all melt into light and dissolve into me,
And my own body appears clearly as the guru’s form.
Throughout this life and all my lives to come,
May I find a free, well-favoured form and meet a genuine teacher.
May I savour the profound and vast Dharma of the Great Vehicle,
Practise it in the proper way and attain awakening.
In all my lives, may I always uphold the Sage’s treasury of Dharma.
May I have immeasurable qualities of knowledge, love and power.
Through constant application in study, reflection and meditation,
May I act on behalf of the Victorious One’s teachings.
May barbarians and extremists who harbour malice toward the Dharma
Be entirely vanquished through my power, and may I be blessed
So that, unaffected by the harms of wrongful thought or action,
I come to gain victory over all.
May I live a complete life and accomplish all my aims,
Have perfect command of all branches of the teachings,
And with unfettered intellect, unlock the great treasury of eloquence,
So that I am without impediment in debate, exposition and composition.
May all sentient beings who have a connection with me
And all who are to be found throughout the whole of space
Be freed from all their suffering and led to happy realms.
From this moment on, may the doors to evil births be forever closed.
As in the noble aspiration of the protector Mañjughoṣa,
May I remain in saṃsāra to act always for beings’ benefit,
And may the magnificent actions of the bodhisattvas
Extend throughout the whole infinity of space and time!