Devotion That Pierces the Heart A Prayer to the Omniscient Jigme Lingpa
Oṃ ho ye! Lord, sovereign of the hundred families and protector of beings,
Father, Jigme Lingpa, remembering you my suffering is relieved.
Hearing your name, conditioned existence is torn right through.
Lord, great liberator upon hearing, to you I pray!
You were prophesied by glorious Padmasambhava
And had visions of the joyful Lord Drimé Özer,
Who entrusted you with the teachings of the three piṭakas and Great Perfection.
Protector Rangjung Dorje, 1 to you I pray!
Your mind is immaculate, primordial wisdom of insight and love.
Your speech is the all-pervading Dharma song.
Your body shines with the major and minor marks, so wondrous.
Father, Khyentse Özer, to you I pray!
By practising the yogas of the path’s two stages,
The knots of your channels, vital essences, and wind-energies were naturally freed,
Enabling you to master, without study, all knowable things.
Lord, Guru Mañjughoṣa, to you I pray! 2
Your mind of bodhicitta is rich with Dharma.
You love all beings like your very own child
And provide for them, all mother-like beings.
Protector Avalokiteśvara, to you I pray!
Father, with your incomparable strength
You vanquish the cities of demonic rākṣasas.
Deity who is victorious over all,
Protector Vajrapāṇi, to you I pray!
Source of refuge who embodies all the three roots, Lord Guru,
The secret storehouse of your wisdom mind overflows with treasures.
Lord, you have arrived at the summit of the path of the four visions.
Father, primordial protector, to you I pray!
Protector, Lotus-Born Drimé Özer,
The instructions of your wisdom treasures pervade the whole world.
Lord whose activity makes every connection meaningful—
Glorious Pema Wangchen, to you I pray!
I, your son, from now until awakening,
With my mind, my heart and soul, 3
Rely on you and surrender to you entirely,
Father—you are the very face and embodiment of all sources of refuge.
Lord Guru, look upon me with your wisdom eye,
And do not let your hand of compassion forsake me.
Whatever suffering or happiness befalls me, your son,
Father, supreme object of remembrance, you know me.
In the casket of the expanse of five lights within my heart
Abides the father, the naturally arisen, indestructible three kāyas.
Having perfected the great dynamic energy of awareness and emptiness,
May I become indivisible from the wisdom mind of the protector Samantabhadra!