All-Pervading Auspiciousness An Aspiration for the Spread of the Teachings of the Eight Great Chariots of the Practice Lineage
Namo guru-buddha-bodhisattvāya!
Buddhas and bodhisattvas throughout the whole of space and time, with your noble resolve,
And all you adepts and vidyādharas of India and Tibet in your oceanic immensity—
Let the compassion of your knowledge, love and power burst forth,
And make these utterly pure aspirations of mine come true!
May the tradition of Padmākara, who embodies all Three Roots,
The great abbot Śāntarakṣita, sovereign of the teachings,
And the Dharma-king Tsangpa Lhayi Metok,
The teachings of kama and terma, spread far and wide!
May the excellent tradition of pure view and conduct,
The threefold lineage of the Jowo Kadampa,
In which all scriptures arise as personal instructions,
Remain without decline until the aeon’s very end!
May the precious Sakyapa teachings, perfectly complete,
Which are unerring and confident in their precise analysis
Of the sūtra and mantra systems of Buddhadharma,
Spread throughout the whole world of Jambudvīpa!
May the supreme teachings of the definitive Mahāmudrā
And oceanic tantras in the lineage of the four transmissions 1
That perfectly derive from the glorious Vajradhara
Never wane but through teaching and practice spread far and wide!
May the ripening empowerments and liberating instructions
Of the Golden Dharma of Khyungpo Naljor with its fivefold ultimate,
The noble Shangpa, which is the heart essence of the learned and accomplished
Of the noble land, such as the two wisdom ḍākinīs, 2 never wane but flourish!
May the teachings of both Jonang and Zhalu traditions,
In which myriad rivers of the four classes of tantra merge,
The six branches of Vajra Yoga 3
That lead matchlessly to the royal seat of accomplishment, thrive!
May the instructions for pacifying suffering which derive
From the tantra Great River of Vowels and Consonants (Āli Kāli) ,
And the practice of Severance, which is the profound import of the Mother Prajñāpāramitā,
And heart treasure of Machik Labdrön, spread far and wide!
May the unsurpassed practice of the perfection phase,
The heart-essence of the great adept Orgyenpa,
The approach and accomplishment of the three vajras for the three doors
Based on threefold isolation, fade no further but expand and spread again!
In addition, may the other excellent streams of teaching that exist,
Among all the gurus of various lineages of minor instruction,
Such as those from Kantalipa and Mitrayogin, all endure,
Upheld forever more by study, contemplation and meditation.
May those who gather to study and practice the dharma treasuries
Of the Jamgön gurus, the bodhisattvas of the three families,
Compilers of the great secret dharma of special transmissions
From all traditions of study and practice in the Land of Snows,
Increase and fill each and every corner of this world;
May all the troubles of this dark age be pacified;
May the teachings and their holders be exalted unto the very peak of existence,
And may the eight great chariots of the practice lineage spread far and wide.