A Drop of Moonlight A Guru Yoga for Lord Mila
In the centre is the embodiment of all victors—
He was first known as Mila Töpa Ga,
Then he was known as Awo Tuchen,
After that he was known as Dorjé Gyaltsen,
And now he is known as Shepa Dorjé.
His skin is blue from a diet of nettles.
Ablaze with blissful warmth, he wears only a cotton shawl.
His body is gaunt from enduring austerities.
He is seated in bodhisattva posture in unwavering samādhi.
In front of him is an amṛta -filled ox horn
That was offered to him by Tseringma.
He has a scripture of the hearing lineage as his pillow.
His paltry possessions are arranged around him.
Of his two hands, the right is against his cheek and the left presses down on his seat.
Adorned with the marks and signs, he is smiling gleefully,
Singing a stream of vajra songs melodiously,
Radiating co-emergent blissful emptiness.
Thus he is vividly present as the sixfold liberation—
Through seeing, hearing, thinking about, touching, sensing, or experiencing.
In the east is Dakpo Lhajé, Gampopa.
He wears a meditation hat, Dharma robes, and bhikṣu’s attire,
And is immersed in the ocean of undefiled samādhi.
In the south is Rechung Dorjé Drak.
He wears a cotton hat, cotton shawl, and cotton robes,
And sings sweet songs of his inner experience.
In the west is Ngendzong Repa.
He wears the monastic attire with the upper robe and monk’s skirt,
And shines with the wisdom realisation of luminosity.
In the north is Repa Shiwa’ö.
He wears the yogi’s attire of meditation belt and skirt,
And glows with boundless experience and realisation of simplicity.
In the intermediate directions surrounding Lord Mila are:
Kyira Repa in the guise of a hunter,
Lukzi Repa in the guise of a herdsman,
Seben Repa in the guise of a monk,
And Padar Bum in the guise of a maiden,
Their worldly appearances on the decline,
Their Dharma appearances on the rise.
To his right is his sister Peta.
To his left, his betrothed Dzesé,
Both gazing at Lord Mila’s face,
His guiding influence rippling through them.
Above him is Marpa Lotsāwa
With a blessed host of the Kagyü gurus.
In between, vividly manifest in Mila’s own body,
Are the deities of the classes of tantra.
Below him are the Five Tseringma Sisters
With a bustling gathering of ḍākinīs and Dharma protectors.
From them flows a cascade of manifold siddhis.
oṃ āḥ hūṃ vajra mahāguru hasa sarva siddhi hūṃ