The Method of Accomplishment of Ārya Avalokiteśvara The Practice of Great Compassion & Mahāmudrā in Union
Oṃ svasti siddham!
To the Guru and Three Jewels I bow.
To the Gurus I go for refuge.
To the Buddhas I go for refuge.
To the Dharma I go for refuge.
To the Saṅgha I go for refuge.
For the benefit of all beings I must attain buddhahood.
For that purpose I meditate on this profound meditative stabilization.
oṃ svabhāva śuddha sarva dharma svabhāva śuddho ‘ham
From the state of emptiness, instantly above a jeweled throne, lotus and moon seat,
I [appear] as Mahākāruṇika, with a body white in colour,
One face, four arms.
The first two hands are folded at the heart
Supplicating all buddhas to perform the benefit of beings.
The lower right holds a white mālā;
Lower left a jeweled lotus.
[Seated with the two feet in vajra posture], adorned with a crown of jewels, earrings, necklace, all the ornaments of jewels and the like,
And wearing garments of various heavenly garments;
From the body immeasurable rays of light shine forth accomplishing the benefit of beings.
On the crown of the head, gathered into one, is the pristine awareness of all buddhas, Amitābha as a crown. Meditate on the lack of inherent nature of appearance, like the reflection in a mirror, meditate holding the mind for a while.
Then, observe Amitābha on the crown of the head.
Bhagavan tathāgata arhat samyaksambuddha Amitāyus, I pray, purify all sins and obscurations and quickly increase the accumulations of merit and wisdom.
Give rise to a perfect excellent continuum of meditative concentration, quickly perfected and completely purified.
Happiness and suffering, saṃsāra and nirvāṇa, the root of all is one's own mind.
That mind, examined, is found to have no colour or shape;
[What is] not singular or plural is empty of intrinsic nature.
By the power of having no intrinsic nature in the beginning, being empty of a first cause, is non-production.
Because of non-production, without a first, the middle is empty of remaining.
Because of not remaining, by non-disintegration, the middle is empty of ceasing. Without any basis or roots all [mental] elaborations are free like the sky.
After familiarization,
Without mental fabrication
Abide within for a long time.
Then meditate: in my heart from HRĪḤ, the mantra garland in the manner of light shines forth.
The compassion of all the buddhas is invoked; they bless me and accomplish the benefit of beings.
oṃ maṇi padme hūṃ