The Secret Vajra Knot An Aspiration Prayer of the Three Yogas
Gurus and hosts of yidam deities, turn your attention towards us!
These positive actions we have accomplished through our efforts today,
All the merit we accumulate throughout the three times and all the virtue that exists,
All gathered together, we now dedicate towards great and unsurpassed awakening!
From now until we reach the heart of enlightenment,
May we be born in a good family, be intelligent and free from pride,
May we have great compassion, and devotion to the teacher,
And confidently follow the glorious Vajra Vehicle!
Matured through empowerment and keeping the commitments of samaya,
On the path of the two stages 1 may we complete ‘approach’ and ‘accomplishment’,
May we attain the vidyādhara levels 2 without difficulty,
And easily achieve the two types of accomplishment!
May all appearances be realized as perfect, the mandala of the Net of Magical Illusion,
All sounds as the inexpressible sound of mantra,
All movement of mind as uncompounded self-knowing awareness,
And may we realize the great bliss that is beyond union and separation!
Without rejecting impairments and breakages, thoughts and obscurations, may they be purified in their own state.
Through realizing outer, inner and secret to be inseparable, may the samaya commitments be fulfilled.
May whatever arises in the mind be liberated by itself in the vast expanse of Samantabhadra,
May the lower realms be emptied from their depths, and may we realize the equality of saṃsāra and nirvāṇa!
Within the Great Sphere the kāyas and buddha fields are perfectly complete,
Within the Great Samaya the concepts of abandoning and adopting are purified,
Within the Great All-Pervasiveness the knot of hope and fear is loosed,
Within the Great Perfection may we actualize the dharmakāya!
May the blessings of the three lineages 3 enter our hearts,
And the secret path of the Net of Magical Illusion be perfected in our minds.
Through the spontaneous accomplishment of the four activities,
May we liberate the infinity of beings!
May the mandalas of peaceful and wrathful emanations guide us with predictions,
The ḍākinīs protect us as their own child,
And the Dharma protectors and guardians dispel all obstacles;
May all our aspirations be fulfilled!
May the teachings of the buddhas flourish and spread far and wide,
May the aspirations of all the holders of the teachings be fulfilled,
May each and every being be freed from all adversity,
And may they receive all that is excellent just as they desire!