Purification of Negativity through Amitābha 1. Prostration 2. Offering 3. Confession 4. Rejoicing 5. Imploring the Buddhas to Turn the Wheel of Dharma 6. Requesting the Buddhas not to Enter Nirvāṇa 7. Dedication
Motivated by the wish to free all beings,
Continually, I shall take refuge
In the Buddha, Dharma and Saṅgha,
Till the essence of enlightenment is reached. 1
Supreme guru and Three Precious Jewels,
I pay homage to and take refuge in you.
Infuse my own and all other sentient beings’
Body, speech and mind with blessings, I pray.
With wisdom and with heartfelt love,
Diligently, for the sake of sentient beings,
I shall place myself before the buddhas,
And generate the perfect mind of bodhicitta. 2
For the sake of sentient beings, I shall attain buddhahood.
To that end, I shall meditate on Amitābha.
The whole area around me is the beautifully arrayed realm of Sukhāvatī, and before me, actually present upon a great jewelled throne and seats of lotus and moon disc is the Buddha Amitābha, surrounded by all the buddhas and bodhisattvas of the ten directions.
Namo bhagavate amitābhāya
To all the buddhas, the lions of the human race,
In all directions of the universe, through past and present and future:
To every single one of you, I bow in homage;
Devotion fills my body, speech and mind.
Through the power of this prayer, aspiring to Good Action,
All the victorious ones appear, vivid here before my mind
And I multiply my body as many times as atoms in the universe,
Each one bowing in prostration to all the buddhas.
In every atom preside as many buddhas as there are atoms,
And around them, all their bodhisattva heirs:
And so I imagine them filling
Completely the entire space of reality.
Saluting them with an endless ocean of praise,
With the sounds of an ocean of different melodies
I sing of the buddhas’ noble qualities,
And praise all those who have gone to perfect bliss.
To every buddha, I make offerings:
Of the loveliest flowers, of beautiful garlands,
Of music and perfumed ointments, the best of parasols,
The brightest lamps and finest incense.
To every buddha, I make offerings:
Exquisite garments and the most fragrant scents,
Powdered incense, heaped as high as Mount Meru,
Arranged in perfect symmetry.
Then the vast and unsurpassable offerings—
Inspired by my devotion to all the buddhas, and
Moved by the power of my faith in Good Actions—
I prostrate and offer to all you victorious ones.
Whatever negative acts I have committed,
While driven by desire, hatred and ignorance,
With my body, my speech and also with my mind,
Before you, I confess and purify each and every one.
With a heart full of delight, I rejoice at all the merits
Of buddhas and bodhisattvas,
Pratyekabuddhas, those in training and the arhats beyond training,
And every living being, throughout the entire universe.
You who are like beacons of light shining through the worlds,
Who passed through the stages of enlightenment, to attain buddhahood, freedom from all attachment,
I exhort you: all of you protectors,
Turn the unsurpassable wheel of Dharma.
Joining my palms together, I pray
To you who intend to pass into nirvāṇa,
Remain, for aeons as many as the atoms in this world,
And bring well-being and happiness to all living beings.
What little virtue I have gathered through my homage,
Through offering, confession, and rejoicing,
Through exhortation and prayer—all of it
I dedicate to the enlightenment of all beings!
Bhagavān, tathāgata, arhat, complete and perfect buddha Amitābha, in you I take refuge.
I confess each and every one of my negative deeds.
I rejoice in all forms of merit.
I implore all the buddhas to turn the Wheel of Dharma
And beseech them not to pass into nirvāna.
Through these sources of virtue may we attain the level of Buddha Amitābha.
Bhagavān, tathāgata, arhat, complete and perfect buddha Amitābha, to you I pay homage.
To you I offer.
In you I take refuge.
I confess each and every one of my negative deeds.
I rejoice in all forms of merit.
I implore all the buddhas to turn the Wheel of Dharma
And beseech them not to pass into nirvāna.
Through these sources of virtue may we attain the level of Buddha Amitābha.
Bhagavān, tathāgata, arhat, complete and perfect buddha Amitābha, purify all my negativity and obscurations, I pray, and help me to be reborn in the world of Sukhāvatī and there receive the prophecy of my awakening.
The Blessed One in front dissolves into me, and I myself become Amitābha, seated in the vajra posture upon the jewelled throne and lotus and moon-disc seats.
My body is red. I have one face and two hands.
With both my hands I make the gesture of samādhi.
I have the thirty-two major marks
And the eighty minor signs of excellence, and I appear while lacking true reality, like a rainbow in the sky.
oṃ amitābha hrīḥ svāhā
Born there in a beautiful lotus flower,
In that excellent and joyous buddha realm,
May the Buddha Amitābha himself
Grant me the prophecy foretelling my enlightenment!
Through this virtue, may I and all other sentient beings,
Enjoy a long life in good health and with the sacred Dharma,
And in future may we be reborn in Sukhāvatī
And swiftly attain the level of the protector Amitābha.
With "Oṃ vajra muḥ", the protector Buddha Amitābha, who had dissolved into me, departs for Sukhāvatī.
oṃ āḥ hūṃ