Guru Yoga of the Great Tertön Pema Lingpa Gathering the Accumulations Prayer Name Mantra Tsok Offering Aspiration
Oṃ svasti!
A! In the dharmadhātu expanse, forever unborn,
The vast pure realm of unceasing natural clarity,
As the unabiding nirmāṇakāya of compassion,
My own root guru appears as Pema Lingpa
In the guise of a mantra adept with glowing pink complexion.
He wears a white undergarment, red sleeves,
A reddish lower garment and maroon shawl.
On his head is the blossoming lotus hat.
His right hand holds a vajra at his heart,
And his left, in the gesture of equanimity, supports a skullcup of liquor.
His two legs are crossed in vajra posture.
At his crown is the Guru of Great Bliss
And in the centre of his heart is Avalokiteśvara
In the form known as Finding Rest in the Nature of Mind. 1
From the three vajra syllables at his three centres,
Light radiates out to invite the wisdom deities.
Hūṃ. From the pure celestial realm of Akaniṣṭha,
As well as the Palace of Lotus Light,
And all the infinite three-kāya pure realms,
Come now, vidyādhara gurus!
Come, with your retinues of vīras and ḍākinīs!
With throngs of parasols and banners of victory,
As many instruments play and their music resounds,
As clouds of fragrant incense billow and swirl,
And the sounds of ‘Hūṃ!’, ‘Phaṭ!’ and ‘Pheṃ!’ reverberate.
I invite you to fill the whole expanse of earth and sky.
Wisdom deities, remain inseparable from samaya forms,
Inspire this devoted child with your blessings,
And grant me attainments, ordinary and supreme!
Vajra samaya jaḥ!
Jaḥ hūṃ baṃ hoḥ!
Hrīḥ! I emanate supreme forms as numerous as atoms in the world,
Who offer prostrations out of their sincere faith and devotion.
All that is excellent throughout the whole of existence and peace,
I hereby bring to mind and present to you as offerings.
All my misdeeds and downfalls accumulated throughout
Beginningless lives I now confess with all four powers complete.
I rejoice, without the slightest trace of envy,
In all the virtues of sublime and ordinary beings.
All you victorious ones intending to pass into nirvāṇa,
I implore you not to go beyond beyond but to remain.
Turn the wheel of Dharma, profound and vast, I urge you,
In accordance with the temperaments of those to be trained.
All the positivity accrued throughout the three times
I hereby dedicate toward the great awakening of beings!
Padmasambhava, lord of oceanic maṇḍalas,
Your singular wisdom appears in many forms:
Princess Pema Sal, Pema Ledrel Tsal,
Longchen Rabjam, master of the teachings of the supreme vehicle,
And Pema Lingpa. To you I pray:
Grant me the attainments, ordinary and supreme!
oṃ āḥ vajra guru padmadvīpa sarva siddhi phala hūṃ
A stream of nectar descends from
The form of the Guru of Great Bliss at the crown.
It passes through the guru’s body
And flows down into the crown of my head.
As it fills my body, it purifies obscurations and confers the four empowerments.
And I actualize the four kāyas.
The guru then melts into light and dissolves into me.
And in the fusion of mind and wisdom, I rest.
I appear clearly as the guru.
And at the heart centre of the Guru of Great Bliss at my crown
Is the Great Compassionate One,
In the centre of whose heart is a Hrīḥ upon a moon disc,
Surrounded by the mantra, from which rays of light emanate,
Making offerings to the exalted ones and purifying obscurations, so that sights, sounds and awareness
Are perfected as the maṇḍala of the vidyādhara guru.
oṃ āḥ hūṃ vajra guru padma siddhi hūṃ
oṃ maṇi padme hūṃ hrīḥ
Āḥ. In the kapāla that is the purity of the perceived
The samaya substances of self-liberated perception
Are cleansed by means of raṃ, yaṃ and khaṃ
And transformed into nectar through the light of the three seed-syllables.
Oṃ āḥ hūṃ
Hrīḥ! From infinite three-kāya realms,
Come, gurus, yidam deities and ḍākinīs,
And join this feast gathering!
Shower down great blessings upon the samaya substances,
And transform the essence of appearance and existence
Into an inexhaustible treasury of jewel-like attainments.
Vajra samaya jaḥ!
Jaḥ hūṃ baṃ hoḥ!
Hoḥ! The outer feast of food and drink,
The inner feast of sensory delights,
And the secret feast of union, blazing and dripping—
These offerings that bring great delight, I offer.
I confess impairments and breakages of samaya.
Free us from deluded concepts—outer, inner and secret.
Deliver them into the space of fivefold wisdom.
Grant us the attainments, ordinary and supreme.
Hūṃ hrīḥ! Supreme substances for restoring commitments,
These vast clouds of offerings which arise
From Samantabhadra’s play of bliss and emptiness,
These pure substances of the elements of existence and peace,
Magically transformed beyond any and all limits,
We offer to the maṇḍala of guru vidyādharas,
Through the indivisibility of object and faculty.
Intoxicated through the nectar of great bliss,
Illusory manifestations of passionate wisdom
Blaze forth and emanate to fill the whole of space.
In this maṇḍala of the original purity of world and inhabitants,
May we attain the supreme accomplishment
Of spontaneously perfect great bliss within this very life.
Hrīḥ! Pheṃ! May those who were empowered in former times
To receive the the accomplished heruka’s leftovers
Accept this remainder torma and liberate the appearance
Of wind-energy and mind into the space of awareness!
Ucchiṣṭa baliṅta khāhi!
By making this tsok offering
To the maṇḍala of the vidyādhara guru,
May I and others, every single sentient being,
Attain realization within the same maṇḍala!
Hūṃ hrīḥ! I offer to you, the hosts of deities of the vidyādhara guru.
With songs that recall your virtuous qualities, I praise you.
Grant me the attainments of enlightened body, speech and mind.
I confess all my errors, confusions, impairments and breakages!
Environment and inhabitants melt into light and dissolve into me.
I too dissolve into basic space beyond reference.
Then, once again, I appear in the form of the guru,
My three centres protected by the three syllables.
oṃ vajra kāvāci rakṣa haṃ