Concise Daily Practice of the Wrathful Guru Takhyung Barwa
All objects of refuge within the ten directions appear as the maṇḍala of the wrathful Takhyung Barwa.  Vajra samājaḥ.
Namo. I and all the infinite sentient beings
Take refuge in the guru, the essence of the Three Jewels,
And in the maṇḍala of the wrathful Takhyung,
With faith from the bottom of our hearts.
Ho. Having entered into this wrathful maṇḍala,
So that all fatherly and motherly sentient beings in the six paths of rebirth
May be liberated through immeasurable compassion,
I will generate the aspirational, engaging, and ultimate bodhicitta.
Ho. To the deity emanated from the expanse of primordial wisdom,
I pay homage, make offerings, and confess my transgressions.
I rejoice in virtue, urge you to turn the wheel of Dharma,
And request you to abide permanently.  All my collected merit,
I dedicate toward the great unexcelled dharmadhātu.
With dzaḥ hūṃ baṃ hoḥ, all objects of refuge dissolve into me.
Hrīḥ.  From emptiness endowed with the three aspects of liberation,
Toward all unrealized, deluded sentient beings,
Non-referential great compassion shines forth.
The extent of space is the realm of Lotus Light.
The immeasurable palace displays as a charnel ground,
Complete with all phenomena of total purity.
In its center, upon a lotus, sun-, and moon-disc,
Are the demons of dependent origination produced by ignorance,
In the form of twelve poisonous snakes coiled together; above that,
Self-awareness in the form of a red hrīḥ completely transforms
Into the fearsome Dorje Drowo Lö.
His mouth open with fangs bared, he stands with two legs spread apart.
His body is red, and he wears a deep blue gown,
A tiger skirt, bone ornaments, and a splendid garland of skulls.
He wears a crown of dried skulls, and amidst his long locks of hair
A green horse's head emerges upright, topped by a red-faced garuḍa.
His right hand holds a vajra and his left holds a flaming garuḍa.
All the pores on his body
Are also filled with garuḍas that radiate out like sparks,
Pulverizing all of the eight classes of harmful beings.
He shines splendidly amidst a mass of flames of primordial wisdom.
The demons of ignorance that arise from the eight consciousnesses,
In the form of the eight great nāgas, bow trembling before him.
At the crown, throat, and heart-center of the lord
Are the body of Mañjuśrī (Yamāntaka), the speech of the Lotus family (Hayagrīva),
And Yangdak (Heruka), each holding a vajra and skull-cup filled with blood,
Marked respectively with the syllables of body, speech, and mind.
Light rays radiate from them, the mudrā of dharma,
And the great mudrā of primordial wisdom, the apparent deities,
Are drawn in by the four mudrās of activity,
Dissolving inseparably into me, the mudrā of samaya.
At my heart-center, surrounding a hūṃ-syllable upon a sun-disc,
The mantra-chain rotates like a firebrand,
Emitting rays of light like sparks of fire,
And emanating garuḍas like sparks, which burn all negative forces,
And resounding with the neighing cry of the horse, which shakes the entire universe.
Purifying the world and its inhabitants, the light rays dissolve into me,
Appearing as the deity in the state of the Great Mudrā.
oṃ āh hūṃ mahā guru artsik nirtsik hrīḥ hūṃ trom phaṭ
Ho.  Like bubbles bursting from water,
The deities of the maṇḍala emanated from me
Dissolve within the expanse of primordial wisdom.  Vajra mu.
In post-meditation, all arises as the illusory form of the deity.
Ho.  All virtuous roots that I have accumulated within the three times
I dedicate as causes for realizing primordial omniscience.
May I and all others gathered here
Attain Buddhahood as a single group.
Hūṃ.  The body of the wrathful guru is charming, heroic, and fearsome.
His speech, the display of Hayagrīva, is laughing, scolding, and fierce.
His mind of the garuḍa of primordial wisdom is compassionate, awesome, and peaceful.
May the deity who tames all negative forces bring auspiciousness!