A Garland of Vajra Words A Prayer to the Guru
Supreme and primordial holder of the three kāyas,
Father of all the buddhas,
Great beacon of light,
Amitāyus, Source of Infinite Life: homage to you!
Brilliant moon of love and compassion,
Fondly looking after all beings,
Ocean of aspiration and wisdom,
Lokeśvara, Lord of the World: homage to you!
Glorious Lotus-Born Buddha,
Holder of the treasury of all-knowing wisdom,
Taking on magical appearance as a myriad of kings,
Nangsi Zilnön, Prevailer over all that Appears and Exists: homage to you!
Born from the Vajra, you are the Vajra-Lord,
Vajra in essence, like the sky, 1
Vajra King, Great Bliss, 2
Pema Jungné, the Lotus-Born: homage to you!
Abiding on the heights of the noble path, 3
Accomplishing the activity of the buddhas of the three times, 4
Protector, supreme amongst all beings, 5
Padmasambhava, the Lotus-Born: homage to you!
Slayer of enemies, haughty demons of ignorance,
Wise, graceful, and glorious, 6
Lion of speech, peerless one, 7
Loden Choksé, Wise Seeker of the Sublime: homage to you!
Accomplisher of great magical creation,
Delighting in the pleasure of great magical creation,
Illusionist of the great magical creation, 8
Pema Gyalpo, Lotus King: homage to you!
You have arisen from the great path of the secret mantra 9
You have attained the ten perfections, 10
You have realized the twelve aspects of the truth, 11
Nyima Özer, Rays of the Sun: homage to you!
Bearer of the five completely pure aggregates, 12
You abide in the finality of complete renunciation, 13
Great Sage, Great Muni, 14
Śākya Sengé, Lion of the Śākyas: homage to you!
Proclaimer of the profound and vast, 15
Fierce vajra, great delight, 16
Lion’s roar of selflessness, 17
Sengé Dradok, Lion’s Roar: homage to you!
Defeater of the armies of demonic forces, 18
Effecting the hūṃs of Vajrahūṃkāra, 19
Impervious and greatly renowned, 20
Dorjé Drolö, Wild Wrathful Vajra: homage to you!
Lord of the three families, sovereign of secret mantra, 21
Supreme subduer of the hard to tame, 22
Great liberator of all beings, 23
Tsokyé Dorjé, Ocean Born Vajra: homage to you!
By praying and paying homage to you,
May we actualize pristine, complete,
Perfect awakening
And thus elevate the glory of the teachings and beings!