A Supplication for the Longevity of the Peerless and Sublime Tulku, Dzongsar Khyentse, Thupten Chökyi Gyatso
Oṃ svasti!
Majestic lord of the ten powers and supreme victor, Buddha, the king of sages ,
Eight great Bodhisattvas, Sixteen Arhats, Seven Entrusted Ones and more;
You who illuminate the teaching of Buddha in this world –
Children of the Buddha, bestow your supreme and changeless blessing.
Your beautiful and youthful form is ablaze with the marks of perfection;
Your voice, teaching the vast and profound Dharma , is melodious with sixty qualities;
And your mind, the wisdom of all the victorious ones, is replete with the glory of awakened qualities and activity –
Padmavajra, grant the supreme accomplishment of immortality.
Force of kindness and knowledge 1 – free and fully mature, your qualities are perfect;
Treasure of the oceanic intelligence of the Dharma 2 of scripture and realization;
Illusory dance of wisdom, you are a master of learning and accomplishment –
Peerless and Sublime Tulku, please remain forever.
Thupten Chökyi Gyatso, you are the supreme heart disciple of our guru,
The lordly Rabsel Dawa, Gentle Protector, the great majestic tertön,
A veritable treasure of compassion and wisdom.
May your life remain forever secure and your wishes be effortlessly fulfilled.
You have thoroughly discerned the eighty-four thousand bundles of Buddha's teaching,
And, with a fine intelligence,
You explain them in new ways throughout the entire world.
Protector skilled in sustaining the ways of the Dharma – please remain forever.
In these, the last five hundred years of the Buddha's Word in Tibet,
Many hard-headed and obnoxious intellectuals have sought to confuse Buddha's authentic teaching.
In reply, with a display of experience and realization, along with the accomplishment of sublime wisdom,
You raise the status of the practice lineage – please remain forever.
Master of limitless means, you are skilled in new ways of explaining the magical path.
You skilfully send out the light waves of the four means of attracting disciples,
And, having seen the illusory nature of saṃsāra and nirvāṇa,
Use illusory means to demonstrate the Dharma to illusory beings – please remain forever.
In essence, you are a complete master of the unmistaken and wonderful paths
Of explaining and accomplishing the long-established Buddhist traditions of Tibet,
In keeping with the exemplary lives of your predecessors.
Master of learning and accomplishment who is skilled in sustaining these paths – please remain forever.
The piercing light that brings benefit and happiness through unflinching truth and fresh insights
Has dawned permanently within the vast celestial pathway of your profound realization
To awaken us from the slumber of old, outdated ways and set us free.
May the brilliance of your wishes and intentions effortlessly pervade everywhere.
The dhātu of the ground is an all-pervasive expanse that is unchanging and primordially pure;
Its natural luminosity is unchanging great bliss;
Their evenness is vastness itself, unwavering and spontaneous.
May you remain in the pure kāya of great transference beyond dissolution or destruction.