Increasing Intelligence — Sealed with Profundity Mantra Recitation Dissolution
Ah. In heroic Mañjuśrī, my very own awareness,
I take refuge with unwavering devotion.
In order to dispel delusion's darkness
I shall set about the practice of Loden Choksé.
Dhīḥ. Emptiness and great compassion united indivisibly,
The power of awareness is a golden syllable Dhīḥ,
From which light radiates, offering to the āryas and purifying the two obscurations.
Light reconverges, and upon a lotus, sun and moon
The syllable Dhīḥ transforms in a single instant,
Becoming Guru Loden Chokse, white in colour,
With a ḍāmaru in his right hand and lotus-cup in the left.
He wears a secret robe, silken cloak and regal attire
And is youthful and magnificent. To his left
Is Sarasvatī, white and garbed in the dress of a goddess.
Her two hands hold and play a vīṇā.
At the guru's heart is venerable Mañjughoṣa,
Orange in colour and with sword and volume
That are elegantly poised atop utpala flowers,
Whose stems he holds while displaying the Dharma Wheel mudrā.
At his heart, in an expansive orb of five-coloured light
I visualize a Dhīḥ, and at the goddess's heart a Hrīṃ.
At their three centres three syllables clearly appear,
From which, rays of light shoot out like hooks,
Inviting the wisdom beings who merge indivisibly.
Dhīḥ. Wisdom form of all the buddhas,
Guru Loden Chokse Tsal,
Together with your hosts of vidyādharas and ḍākinīs,
Grant this devoted child your blessings.
oṃ āḥ mahāguru dhīḥ mūṃ hrīṃ prajñā jñāna abheṣaya a | jaḥ hūṃ baṃ hoḥ | ati pū ho | namaya dhī |
Hūṃ. Actual gifts and those created by the mind,
In the form of offering clouds like those of Samantabhadra,
Boundless in extent and adorning the whole of space,
I offer to the Mañjughoṣa guru.
oṃ sarva pūja samaya hoḥ
Āḥ. Basis of all the expressions there could be,
Wisdom embodiment, most sublime of forms,
Mighty lord of utterance, Lion of Speech,
Vidyādhara guru, to you I offer homage and praise.
From the vital force mantra at the heart
Of the wisdom deity emanate rays of light,
Which offer to the buddhas and gather the wisdom of twofold knowledge.
As they return and dissolve into me, I gain blessings and attainments.
Light shoots out once again, collects the vital essence
Of the environment and beings, and dissolves into me.
The whole world and its inhabitants transform into Mañjuśrī and consort
And the form of the vidyādhara guru.
Everything reverberates with the mantra's spontaneous sound.
And all is spontaneously perfect within great equalness and perfection.
oṃ āḥ mahāguru dhīḥ mūṃ hrīṃ prajñā jñāna arapacana dhīḥ hūṃ svāhā
All perception of the deity dissolves within an experience of clear light.
And in the expanse of profound peace beyond complexity: āḥ.
Once again, sights, sounds, thoughts and ideas
Arise as the display of the vidyādhara guru.
oṃ āḥ hūṃ.