Turning Back the Misfortunes of the Age of Degeneration Prayers to the Precious Master of Orgyen
Namo Guru! 1
Embodiment supreme, of all the infinite buddhas,
Source of an infinite ocean of gurus, devas and ḍākinīs,
Lord of all mandalas, precious master of Orgyen,
Gaze on us with your compassion, now that the five degenerations reign!
The emanations of your wisdom body go beyond all imagining,
The five tötrengs, the eight manifestations,
The twelve emanations, and forty further emanations—
Limitless are the forms and activities you display to tame beings.
Especially in this dark age, great destroyer who
Subjugates the gyadré, gongpo, damsi and jungpo,
Dorje Drolö, crazy king of wrath:
We pay homage to you, Guru Dorje Drakpo Tsal!
Your power as devastating as the inferno at the end of a kalpa,
Annihilating  the  malevolent, violent demons who lead astray,
Smashing to dust armies of asuras and barbarians:
We offer praise and homage to you, victorious Dorje Sinpo!
Through the force of our praising and praying to you,
In this last of the periods of five hundred parts, let the unsurpassable teachings, and all beings
Always be caressed by your eyes of wisdom, Guru,
Always be guided by your hands of love!
Let this whole world of ours dwell in the authentic View,
Let the degenerations of our time be utterly dispelled,
Let all possess complete happiness, and prosperity,
And make our minds overflow with love!
Blaze on, light of Buddha’s priceless teaching:
Let the holders of the teaching attain immortality,
Let the saṅgha increase, without divisions, like a vast ocean,
And make the enlightened activity of practice and study grow!
Above all, grant us your blessing, and when the lotus-flower of the bliss and happiness of the teachings and living beings
Is threatened by the frost of the forces of asuras,
Strike it with the heat of the rays of your compassion,
So they are instantly pacified and rendered powerless!
Precious Guru Rinpoche, all of us who follow you—
Hold us fast to you, and stay with us, throughout all our lives,
Set your lotus-feet on the crown of our heads, and
Let the blessing of your three secrets satisfy our hearts!
Pacify all obstacles, outer, inner and secret,
Let long life, merit, prosperity, wisdom and noble qualities increase,
Let time be spent in acting meaningfully, according to the Dharma,
Let all be auspicious for the enlightened activity of study and practice to spread!