Brief Turning Back the Summons
Namo guru ḍākiniye!
raṃ yaṃ khaṃ | oṃ āḥ hūṃ
oṃ āḥ hūṃ
From the charnel grounds and sacred places of three-kāya realms,
Vajravārāhī, together with infinite hosts of ḍākinīs,
Heroes, 1 heroines, 2 spirits of the tantra classes,
Guardians of place and treasure, and benevolent local deities,
Come now to this place and take your respective seats.
Accept this effigy, golden drink and offering torma of a hundred flavours,
These substances of means and knowledge from the wondrous gaṇacakra ,
Clustered clouds of offerings that delight the six senses,
Extending to the far reaches of space as Samantabhadra's sumptuous display,
Take it all as a means of delighting your six immaculate sense powers.
May your wishes thereby be fulfilled, as we confess errors, delusions, impairments and breakages.
Keep us, samaya-keeping teacher and students, together with our patrons,
From falling prey to the eight classes in appearance and existence.
Avert all harm from forms of sorcery and spellcraft,
Brought on by malicious and malevolent practitioners, Buddhist and Bönpo.
Avert the curses and black magic of uncivilized heretics.
And especially for this noble beacon of the teachings,
And vajra awareness-holders, brothers and sisters,
Gather back the silken beckoning cord of the vīras and ḍākinīs,
Who are beyond this world, yet still display worldly ways.
Without wavering from the basic space of fivefold wisdom,
Absorb all concepts of birth and death into unarisen space.
Repair any defects of flesh and blood, warmth and breath,
Bolster the strength of the channels, winds and essences,
And perfect outer, inner and secret elements as the five wisdoms.
Having established the vital channel of vajra immortality,
Cause us to attain supreme perpetual and unchanging form.
oṃ baṃ vajravārāhī krodhakālī harinisa āveśāya ḍāka ḍākinī rulu rulu hūṃ bhyo hūṃ a ya ma du ru tsa sha na—turn back all harm from sorcery and spellcraft as well as the summons of the vīras, ḍākinīs, and gods and demons of the eight classes throughout appearance and existence!
May they cease to be!
May they be pacified!
Bhyoḥ! Bhyoḥ! Avert! Avert!