A Brief Practice of Consecrating Amṛta for the Vidyādhara Assembly 1
bhrūṃ viśva viśuddhe oṃ āḥ hūṃ vajra-guru-padma siddhi hūṃ phaṭ jaḥ
The wisdom deity in my heart separates and remains indivisibly with the front visualization.
From the state of emptiness arises wind and fire.
Above a skull-cup placed upon a tripod
Is the syllable ā, which transforms into a wisdom kapāla.
Within the kapāla’s vast expanse
Are five iron hooks and five lights
Marked by the ten seed syllables of the male and female deities of the five families.
The wind blows and the fire blazes, heating up the skull-cup
And causing the contents to boil and melt into light.
In the middle of a swirling ocean of amṛta
Is the delightful palace, beyond measure.
It is square, with four doors and all other characteristics;
Its symbols, meanings and significance all perfectly complete.
Without outside or inside, it is vast, unimpeded clarity.
In its centre, upon a multicoloured lotus, sun and moon, is a Hūṃ,
Out of which, perfect in the very moment of envisioning,
I arise as the actual presence of all the buddhas— 2
The Lotus-Born ‘Prevailing Over All That Appears and Exists’…
From my heart light radiates forth,
Invoking the deities of the front visualization.
From the deities limitless rays of light—the play of bliss and emptiness—
Radiate and fill the sky.
All of you victorious ones of the ten directions and your heirs,
Root and lineage masters, hosts of vidyādhara gurus,
Personal deities and peaceful and wrathful deities, infinite in number,
Heroic ones and yoginīs of the three places—
All the wisdom of your enlightened body, speech and mind,
And all the vital essences of existence and peace, animate and inanimate,
Are/Is gathered here into great bliss.
The nectar enters through their mouths and fills their bodies.
From the point of union of the male and female deities’ blissful play,
It pours down like rain and dissolves into the elixir,
Which transforms into great wisdom amṛta
That liberates upon sight, hearing, taste and touch.
oṃ vajra-amṛita hūṃ hrīḥ thā
The deities of the front visualization melt into light and transform into heaps of amṛta that liberates on taste.