The Lament of Rudra
Ho! Great compassionate one, the conqueror Vajrasattva,
Supreme in appearance, the colour of a pristine conch,
Pure and luminous, shining like a hundred thousand suns,
Brave warrior whose brilliant rays illuminate a thousand worlds.
Renowned as a guide to those in the three planes of existence,
Sole companion to all beings throughout the triple realm,
Kind protector, compassionate deity, heed me now, I pray.
Throughout the whole of beginningless time,
I have taken wrong paths, lost my way, and wandered in the circle of existence.
Through past misdeeds and harmful actions, I have gone astray.
Whatever negative acts I have committed, I now remorsefully admit.
Through the powerful force of terrible, intensifying karma,
I am immersed in the great ocean of suffering within saṃsāra:
The raging infernos of aggression set my mind ablaze,
The thick darkness of ignorance blinds my intellect,
The muddy swamp of desire draws in my sinking consciousness,
The mountain of arrogant pride pushes me down to evil destinies,
And the tempestuous winds of jealousy sweep me into saṃsāra.
I am bound by the tight knots of the view of self,
Flung into the pit of passion’s burning embers,
And intense, unbearable suffering pours down upon me like rain.
Such miserable torment is difficult to endure,
And the raging fires of powerfully negative actions
Have caused the shoots of my consciousness to wither.
It is too much for this body of illusory aggregates to bear.
Can you, my kind and compassionate protector, acquiesce?
I, so foolish and deluded, a doer of terrible, wicked deeds,
Have, through force of karma, been born as rudra in this desire realm.
How I regret such a rebirth! How my mistaken ways depress me!
Yet for all my despondency and remorse, there can be no remedy.
The force of my karma is like the flow of a river in spate—
How could this stream of karma be suddenly reversed?
All these karmic effects have come about through my own actions.
I received instructions, but could not do as I was told.
With body, speech, and mind, I slipped into negativity.
Swept along by the fierce winds of karma,
Through countless ages in the past,
I wandered through the dark dungeons of saṃsāra.
Now through your compassionate blessings,
Karmic and emotional obscurations are purified at their source,
And I find myself before you who are a font of motherly love,
You who are as dazzling as the sun, as radiant as the moon.
With your face of compassion at which I never tire of looking.
I have been blind throughout beginningless time,
Unable to see you through the cataracts of ignorance.
Protector of beings, where are you now?
So utterly unbearable is karma’s intense force,
That I shiver in terror and tremble in fright,
And cry out in this longing, sorrowful lament.
As I call to you in my weariness and distress,
If you do not consider me, O kind, compassionate protector,
Then, when death comes and it’s time for body and mind to part,
I will leave my teacher and friends as Yama leads me away.
Then, in a world bereft of friends and dear relations,
I will be led on alone, carried by the force of karma.
At that time, if I should lack refuge or protection,
Please do not hesitate for any reason,
But act directly and forcefully, right away.
Those who are tormented by karma, as I am,
Have misunderstood throughout beginningless time,
Failed to escape the abodes of saṃsāra’s three realms,
And in the course of many lives throughout unnumbered ages,
Have taken on countless bodily forms, all of which decayed.
Our flesh and bones, if amassed, would span the universe.
Our pus and blood, if collected, would be equal to the oceans.
Our actions, if enumerated, would defy thought and utterance.
In the course of these rounds of birth and death in the three realms
All that we have done has been to no avail.
In all these countless rebirths
If the acts of just a single lifetime
Had been dedicated to unsurpassed awakening
That alone would have been supremely purposeful.
Surely I would thus have reached nirvāṇa.
Yet through karma’s force and the great strength of the afflictions,
I took on forms of flesh and blood to wander in saṃsāra,
Imprisoned in existence where distress is hard to bear.
Such miseries as these, unbearable in intensity—
Every form of harm has arisen from my own deeds.
In your great compassion, put an end to my wicked ways,
And repel the winds of karma and affliction, I pray.
When, through the force of ignorant, mistaken acts,
I must wander forever in the darkness of unknowing,
Will you not assist me with the light of wisdom’s torch?
When the ripening of past misdeeds is intolerable,
Will you not take action out of great compassion?
When I have fallen into the abyss of errant ways,
Will you not catch me with the swift hand of mercy?
When I am stricken with the unendurable malady of the three poisons,
Will you not heal me with the medicine of compassionate skill-in-means?
When the fires of karmic ripening and suffering rage,
Will you not bring the cooling rains of mercy?
When I sink into the muddy swamp of saṃsāric suffering,
Will you not pull me out with the hook of compassionate skill-in-means?
When, having repeatedly trained myself in the states of saṃsāra’s three realms,
I eventually attain the fruition through my own awareness,
Of what use will the Noble One’s compassion be?
Were you to leave me to the force of karmic throes,
How could I then refer to you as generous of heart?
Heroic One, you possess the strength of compassion,
So when the karma of past connections overwhelms me,
Do not remain inattentive, unconcerned or passive,
But heed my heart’s plea, right now, O sovereign deity of compassion:
Pull me out of the mire of saṃsāra
And swiftly lead me to the state of the three kāyas!