Words of the Vajra Queen An Essential Daily Practice of the Vidyādharas’ Female Practice Refuge and Bodhicitta The Main Part: Meditating on the Visualization of the Ḍākinī The Visualization for Recitation Dissolution and re-emergence
You are the one whose kindness
Can bring great joy in an instant,
The guru in jewel-like form,
Vajra holder, at your feet I bow!
Namo! Mother of all the buddhas, Vajravārāhī,
In you, I take refuge, beyond union and separation.
I will lead all beings, impartially,
To the state of great bliss.
Āḥ! All that appears is the expanse of the five mothers.
All that exists is the circle of the ḍākinīs.
The celestial palace is beyond cause and condition:
The single entrance symbolises the single sphere 2 of all-pervading space.
In the centre of the palace blazing with great bliss,
Upon the heart of a blossoming lotus
And a sun-disc seat, stands the foremost of the ḍākinīs:
In the expanse of dharmakāya she is Samantabhadrī,
In the sambhogakāya realm she is Vajravārāhī,
And in nirmāṇakāya form she is Yeshe Tsogyal.
She has one face and two hands; her body is red in colour.
She is naked, standing in the posture of equanimity, yet ready to act.
Passionate and smiling,
In her right hand she holds a small skull-drum 3
That is raised and played close to her ear.
In her left hand she holds a hooked knife, the handle
Resting on her hip; her bearing is imposing and graceful.
Her bhaga is expanded and her breasts swell.
She is adorned with jewels and youth-ornaments;
And wears a garland of white lotus flowers. 4
The six bone ornaments adorn her body, 5
Her black, glistening hair is plaited,
And her jewelled diadem shines majestically.
Her central eye gazes into all-encompassing space.
Her sambhogakāya eye tames beings.
Her nirmāṇakāya eye summons the three realms.
In her body the maṇḍalas of all the classes of tantra are perfectly complete.
She is surrounded by a vast assembly of hundreds of thousands of ḍākinīs.
The lord of the families is Mighty Lotus with Skull-Garland. 6
The youthful ācārya has a light complexion and is smiling.
He appears in the form of a heruka and plays a small skull-drum and bell.
The samaya and wisdom deities are indivisible.
Merely by meditating on them I gain accomplishment.
I am the ḍākinī. In my heart
Is Vārāhī, dark blue in colour and holding a hooked knife and skull-cup.
In her heart is a coil of joy, in the centre of which is the syllable vaṃ,
Encircled by the mantra garland. It revolves, emitting light rays that
Illuminate and enhance the appearance of the deities
It invokes the wisdom mind of the guru, the lord of the families,
Who sends out light rays that accomplish the two benefits.
From the guru’s body, a stream of ambrosia,
Undefiled great bliss, flows down.
Through the power of the four blisses
The primordial wisdom of the four empowerments is experienced.
oṃ padmo-yoginī-jñāna-vārāhī hūṃ
oṃ guhya-jñāna bodhicitta-mahāsukha rulu rulu hūṃ bhyo hūṃ
Hoḥ! Like bubbles appearing on water,
The deities of the maṇḍala, created by myself,
Dissolve into the all-pervading space of primordial wisdom— vajra muḥ !
In the post-meditation, everything arises as the illusory body of the deity.
Through the merit of this practice may I swiftly
Accomplish the Vajra Queen,
And so every single sentient being, without exception,
Be led to that perfect state as well!