Bright Lamp for the Profound Path: A Guru Yoga Taking Refuge Generating Bodhicitta Main Part Invocation Seven Branches Maṇḍala Offering Prayer and Receiving Empowerment
Namo guru dharmakāya!
Namo! I and sentient beings, who are as infinite as space,
Take refuge in the glorious Vajradhara Guru,
The embodiment of all sources of refuge,
From now until we reach awakening.
To free all beings of the six classes without exception,
Who are led astray by their confused notions of self,
From the ocean of suffering and conditioned existence,
I generate the supreme mind set upon awakening.
A. Apparent and existent phenomena become emptiness.
Out of this state of emptiness, upon seats of
Lotus, sun-disc, māras and damsi demons,
I appear in the form of mighty Red Hayagrīva,
Holding sword and skull-cup and in heroic stance.
He is in union with red Vārāhī, his own self-radiance,
And has all the charnel ground accoutrements.
At his crown, upon a white lotus,
And sun- and moon-disc seats,
Is the Mahāguru Dewa Chenpo—Great Bliss,
Pale red, smiling serenely, adorned with the signs and marks,
And wearing a secret garment, gown, monastic shawl,
Cloak and long-flapped, deerskin hat.
In his two hands, which rest in equanimity,
Is a skullcup full of amṛta with a Baṃ in its centre.
With his two legs crossed in the vajra posture,
He is the great embodiment and representative of the Three Roots.
Hūṃ! In the north-west of the land of Oḍḍiyāna
In the heart of a lotus flower,
Endowed with the most marvellous attainments,
You are renowned as the ‘Lotus-born’,
Surrounded by many hosts of ḍākinīs
Following in your footsteps,
I pray to you: Come, inspire me with your blessing!
guru padma siddhi hūṃ
vajra samaya jaḥ jaḥ hūṃ baṃ hoḥ hoḥ
Emanating as many bodies as there are atoms,
I offer homage, in devotion, with body, speech and mind.
I present outer, inner and secret offerings.
I confess impairments and breakages of vows and samayas.
I rejoice in ocean-like accumulations of virtue.
Turn the Wheel of Dharma, vast and profound,
And do not pass into parinirvāṇa, I pray.
I dedicate all virtues toward the essence of awakening.
May all beings swiftly attain buddhahood!
oṃ āḥ hūṃ
The outer world with all its riches and splendours
And the aggregates, elements and sources of its inhabitants,
Which have always been perfect as a great buddha realm,
I offer in the great all-pervasiveness of space and wisdom.
oṃ sarva ratna-maṇḍala pūja hoḥ
oṃ āḥ hūṃ vajra mahāguru padma sukha sarva siddhi hūṃ
Guru of Great Bliss who embodies all sources of refuge,
Consider me with your great knowledge, love and power.
Confer blessings and empowerments of body, speech and mind,
And grant me the two kinds of attainment, ordinary and supreme.
From the three vajra syllables at the Guru’s three centres,
Rays of light and nectar stream out, gradually and all at once.
They enter and dissolve into my own three places,
Through which I receive the four empowerments, purify the four obscurations,
And actualize the level of the four kāyas.
The Guru, in a state of great delight,
Enters my brahma-aperture and descends
To remain upon a broad white lotus at my heart.
And in the direction of awareness, mind and wisdom merge.
In the Guru’s heart, upon lotus and sun,
In the hub of a vajra is a red Hrīḥ,
Surrounded by the revolving mantra garland,
Which emits light, offering to the victorious ones and gathering blessings.
The obscurations of beings are purified, and the whole world,
Environment and inhabitants, is perfected as the maṇḍala of mighty Padma.
oṃ āḥ hūṃ vajra mahāguru padma sukha padmāntakṛt hayagrīva hulu hulu hūṃ phaṭ
…raja haṃ shaṃ trig māraya bad nan
The environment and those within it melt into light and dissolve into me.
I too become emptiness, beyond reference.
Then I arise as the Wrathful King, great appearance and emptiness.
oṃ āḥ hūṃ
Through this virtue, may all sentient beings, infinite as space,
Be liberated through the path of the guru.
May I always strive to apply the practice
For the sake of beings beyond number.
Of all auspicious things the most auspicious,
Great splendour, glory, good, most prosperous,
Great reassurance, foremost celebration—
With a great feast of joy, let all be auspicious! 2