A Yogi’s Song of Happiness The Melody that Brings Universal Auspiciousness and Fulfilment
Throughout the karmic chain of my lives, you adorn my crown,
Tied inseparably with the flowers of pure action and aspiration,
Incomparable and most gracious guru, Wish-Fulfilling Jewel,
Your name so difficult to utter: Thupten Chöpel, 1 care for me!
Remain at the centre of the palace of the indestructible chakra in my heart,
As I present nectar-like offering-clouds of the three kinds of faith,
Lord of a hundred buddha families, Mipham Lodrö Drimé—Stainless Intellect,
Treasury of myriad qualities of retention and confidence, care for me!
Today, through the guru’s compassion, I am joyful and happy,
My aspiration to practise the noble Dharma has been fulfilled,
And even though this aged body lacks the strength to dance,
I feel moved to sing this spontaneous happy song from my bed!
Karmic experiences of joy and sorrow in saṃsāra’s six realms
Have no more permanence or stability than clouds in spring,
But those of us with the fortune to practise the noble Dharma
Proceed from one joy to the next and thus remain content!
Inspired by the cuckoo call of past karma and aspirations,
I entered the garden of Buddhist teachings at an early age,
And through savouring the nectar drops of the supreme vehicle,
Created the right initial conditions to follow the sacred Dharma.
I kept in mind the lives of the great masters of the past,
And received instructions from the incomparable noble guru,
Even now when I think of the joyous gatherings of teacher and disciples,
I feel so elated that my mind is stirred and my body cannot hold still.
The lord guru is the embodiment of infinite sources of refuge,
And holding on to a corner of the white cloth of his compassion,
I made the aspiration that we might never be apart.
Now, no matter what happens, I shall always be happy.
The ultimate practice passed down by the vidyādharas of the lineage
Is the Dharma of the highest vehicle, the means to attain the rainbow body dharmakāya—
All who encounter it truly discover the rarest of the rare,
And I, a yogi who keeps it forever in mind, am happy indeed!
Lord of all buddha families, Mipham Lodrö Drimé,
Through relying on you inseparably in the space of my devotion,
I have realized the indestructible genuine nature of awareness and emptiness,
And let go of mental speculation and contrived views and meditation.
Without depending upon strenuous effort and book learning,
The knots of dualistic mind have been released from deep within my heart,
And the secrets of a hundred sūtra and mantra works effortlessly appear—
As a yogi on the secret path of the pinnacle of vehicles, I am happy indeed!
Motivated by the purest intention of non-referential love and compassion,
To lead all with whom I am connected to the most perfect of pure lands,
I shall wear the armour of unflagging diligence and strength of heart—
As a yogi who accomplishes the welfare of others, I am happy indeed!
The crowning jewel of buddha’s teachings, source of all benefit and happiness,
Remains hidden during the dark night of a degenerate age,
But having raised it aloft on the white victory banner of study and practice,
I, a yogi who renders service to the teachings, am happy indeed!
This tainted contraption, an illusory assemblage of the elements,
Is tormented by the incessant duḥkha of sickness and ageing,
But with a free and fortunate human life devoted meaningfully to the Dharma,
The sun of happiness dawns freely and expansively in my mind!
Now, that the Three Root deities and guru have lovingly accepted me,
And the music of secret instruction has passed into my ears,
I have gained the vast confidence of proceeding from joy to joy,
And even in solitude, I feel inspired to sing a song of happiness!
In life, I am joyful because I serve the teachings and beings.
In death, I shall be joyful too, as I shall surely go to a pure land;
So whatever karmic experiences arise, whether positive or negative,
I have let go of mental agitation based on hopes and fears!
When the time comes to escape the confines of these tainted aggregates,
I shall reject this uncontrollable, illusory body born of karma,
And seek instead a supreme form adorned with signs and marks
In the heart of a lotus flower within the pure realm of Sukhāvatī.
Having received instruction on the supreme vehicle from an actual buddha,
My body of realization will perfect its strength, and its emanation display
Will enjoy the company of vidyādharas and bodhisattvas male and female,
While travelling to behold various spectacles in pure and impure realms.
In short, I rejoice that by putting on the armour of diligence
And training in the vast, ocean-like activity of Samantabhadra,
I shall strive for as long as space exists to liberate all beings,
My very own past mothers, from the ocean of existence!
When this sweet sound of the music of the constant wheel of enjoyment,
This doha of happiness that brings universal auspiciousness and fulfilment,
Is heard by any being, regardless of whether they are high or low in status,
May they gain the excellent fortune of everlasting freedom from sorrow!