Rain of Accomplishments A Song That Incorporates the Four Mindfulnesses from an Instruction on the View of the Middle Way
Upon a seat of the unchanging union of method and wisdom,
Sits the gracious guru, embodiment of all sources of refuge—
A buddha, perfect in abandonment and realization, right there.
Abandoning all critical ideas, supplicate him or her with pure perception.
Without allowing the mind to wander, remain in a state of devotion.
Without losing mindfulness, remain in a state of devotion.
Within the prison of suffering in saṃsāra that is without end,
The six classes of beings wander, bereft of happiness—
Your very own parents, who nurtured you with such care, right there.
Abandoning attachment and aversion, meditate on cherishing others and on compassion.
Without allowing the mind to wander, remain in a state of compassion.
Without losing mindfulness, remain in a state of compassion.
Within the celestial palace of great bliss, delightful to experience,
The divine body of your own pure aggregates and constituents abides—
The yidam deity, in whom the three kāyas are inseparable, right there.
Without clinging to ordinariness, practise divine pride and vivid appearance.
Without allowing the mind to wander, remain in a state of profound clarity.
Without losing mindfulness, remain in a state of profound clarity.
The sky of ultimate luminosity, the nature of phenomena,
Pervades the maṇḍala of knowable things, whatever appears and exists—
The way things actually abide, beyond expression, right there.
Abandoning mental fabrication, look into the essence of empty clarity.
Without allowing the mind to wander, remain in a state of dharmatā.
Without losing mindfulness, remain in a state of dharmatā.
At the crossroads of the six collections of consciousness with all their various appearances,
The haze of dualistic phenomena lacking basis or origin can be seen—
A deceptive, illusory spectacle, right there.
Without thinking of it as real, look into the essence of emptiness.
Without allowing the mind to wander, remain in a state of appearance and emptiness.
Without losing mindfulness, remain in a state of appearance and emptiness.