Threefold Aspiration for Rebirth in Zangdok Palri
Oṃ āḥ hūṃ.
South from where the sun sets to the West of here lies
The Glorious Mountain’s pure celestial realm,
A heart-shaped jewel amid eight rākṣasa isles.
On its peak, a mansion boundless, made of five gems,
Opens wide on vast grounds of five pleasures possessed:
Green meadows, ponds of nectar, and forests where stay
Ḍākinīs, birds and deer beneath skies filled with rays
Of rainbows and gift-bearing gods and goddesses.
Inside the palace, Vajradhara Lotus-Born
Is King Raksha Tötreng, with five kāyas, eight forms,
The king, twenty-five subjects, myriad deities,
Vidyādhara lords and ladies on all stories.
Ḍākinīs, guardians, kiṃkaras, rākṣasas and
Drekpas male and female as envoys he commands.
Unheard of are ails, evil, foes and demons here,
And food and clothes without wait or effort appear.
As longing for this blessed land fills our hearts,
With fierce, yearning devotion together we pray:
When our time has come for this life to depart,
May all reach the supreme pureland without delay!
Once there, let us not take birth from rākṣasa wombs,
But amid the surrounding amṛta-filled pools,
From blue lotuses be spontaneously born.
And instantly may the flowers open so we
Join the ranks of vidyādhara lords and ladies
Beholding the countenance of the great Lotus-Born!
Then, through empowerment, teaching, and prophecy,
The state of Guru Padma may we reach swiftly,
And so a guide for all infinite beings be!
In the Lotus Light Palace of great bliss may I
Be born among ḍākinīs and vidyādharas,
The court of Padma, essence of all the buddhas,
And thus hear him teach the Great Vehicle Dharma!
May I master the four vidyādhara levels,
Be embraced by Padma in the celestial realms,
Realize that my mind and the guru are one,
And so with the Lotus Vidyādhara be one!
May I know the view that defies designation.
May actless meditation, ever free from extremes,
And effortless conduct for the good of beings,
Beneficent action, reach their culmination!
Lotus-Born inseparable from the primordial way,
Copper-Coloured Mountain, realm of pure self-display:
Appearance and awareness naturally one,
May all be born in the original pureland!