The Seed of Faith A Prayer to the Sublime Ones
Namo gurubhyaḥ!
Peaceful space of reality in which abandonment and realization are complete,
Perfect enjoyment of great bliss, blazing with the splendour of the signs and marks,
And dance-like emanations attuned to the temperaments of those to be trained—
To the oceanic guides of these three kāyas, I pray.
Fourth light of this Fortunate Age, foremost of Śākyas,
Invincible One, Mañjughoṣa, Lord of Secrets,
Mighty Avalokiteśvara, Lake-born Vajra and the rest—
To the victorious ones and their heirs, I pray.
Sixteen Elders, Seven Patriarchs, 1
Six Ornaments, Three Masters, Eight Vidyādharas,
Together with the eighty-four lords of yoga and the rest—
To the scholars and adepts of the Land of Āryas, I pray.
Nyingmapas, pioneers of the teachings in this Land of Snows,
Sakyapas, who caused the teachings as a whole to expand,
And Kadampas, source of many million holders of the teachings—
To these spiritual guides together with their lineages, I pray.
Kagyüpas, unrivalled in their direct path to accomplishment,
Butön and Dolpopa, sovereigns of the tantra class, profound and vast,
And Tsongkhapa, sun of Dharma and Mañjughoṣa himself—
To these holders of the teachings together with their students, I pray.
And I pray too to all the other great holders of the teachings
Of scripture and realization based on exposition and practice
Of Valid Cognition, Vinaya, Abhidharma, Prajñāpāramitā,
Middle Way, Pacification, Severance and the other lineages.
Above all, to that supreme embodiment of all the wisdom
Possessed by every guru in the succession of lineage teachers
From the Supreme Guide down to those of the present day—
To my very own root guru, I pray.
Through the power of praying like this with unwavering devotion,
May I be inspired to renounce existence yet remain unattached to the bliss of quiescence,
And, with love, compassion and the twofold spirit of awakening,
Take up the conduct of the bodhisattva heirs to the victorious.
Inspire me to maintain discipline, perfect study, contemplation and meditation,
Mature my mind through empowerment, maintain pure samaya,
And realize the primordial wisdom of union through training
And through no-more-training in the two phases.