Calling the Guru from Afar
The brilliant radiance of sublime knowledge and wisdom,
Along with its all-pervading self-radiance of great love ,
Appeared as the activity of all the victorious buddhas, the Lake-Born Lord,
Who is inseparable from the gentle protector, Rabsel Dawa —to you, I bow.
Protector, you have ever been the natural and most perfect Buddha,
And the clouds of the five blissful families gathered within your fivefold field –
The magical manifestations of the buddhas and their children defy the imagination,
Yet here you chose to appear in a form that would adorn the crowns of the learned and spiritually accomplished in their millions.
Seeing the radiance of your attractive and beautiful form, ablaze with its major and minor marks of perfection,
Shining brightly, the garden of faith effortlessly came to life
And we fortunate bees enjoyed a veritable pleasure grove –
Attracting disciples with four activities, you brought great meaning to whomever you met.
The brilliant play of a thousand lights that was your eloquent speech
Brought the long dark slumber of ignorance to an end.
And you bestowed the joy of confident intelligence
That understands profound and vast subjects simultaneously.
In the space of the seductress, aware yet empty, primordially pure and luminous,
With a song of joy, you brought about the experiences of sixteen-fold great bliss.
Through the eight expressions of wonder, you naturally liberated all you encountered,
And brought all to the level of the yogic conduct of surpassing splendor.
The treasures, the qualities of the three secrets of the buddhas and bodhisattvas,
Were all found in you, powerful, wish-fulfilling monarch.
You bestowed every excellence in saṃsāra and nirvāṇa and
To recall you, my glorious guru, quells the anguish I feel.
The play of your fourfold taming activity elevated the teachings of Buddha
And those who uphold them to greater heights.
Highly praised, your activity reached throughout the three realms.
Such a pervasive glow of auspiciousness and virtue is all your kindness.
Glorious guru whose kindness could never be repaid,
I call out to you with a fierce and longing faith –
Cause my mind to merge and become one with the expanse of your wisdom.
And bestow, I pray, the accomplishment whereby mistaken thoughts are freed in and of themselves.