The Shower of Blessings A Prayer to the Lineage of The Sealed Quintessence, the Innermost Secret Guru Practice
Samantabhadra, Vajrasattva, Garab Dorje,
Mañjuśrīmitra, Śrī Siṃha,
Jñānasūtra and Vimalamitra—
To you I pray, grant me the vajra wisdom!
Lake Born Vajra, 1 the Lord, subject and companion, 2
Pioneer of the teachings of the luminous essence, Longchenpa,
And, indivisible from him, the omniscient Jigdral Lingpa—
To you I pray, grant me the vajra wisdom!
Root guru, universal embodiment of the wisdom, love and power
Of all the buddhas of the ten directions and four times,
The mere thought of whom dispels all anguish—
To you I pray, grant me the vajra wisdom!
Through the power of this ardent, heartfelt prayer,
May I renounce worldly existence and perfect twofold bodhicitta.
Bless me that I may be cared for by the glorious guru
And receive the nectar of the ripening and liberating instructions of the great secret!
In particular, bless me that in remote and pleasant mountain locations,
I may perfect the approach and accomplishment of the innermost secret guru practice,
And be cared for by the wisdom body
Of the omniscient King of Dharma himself!
Bless me that the powerful energy of the ultimate lineage’s wisdom may enter my heart,
And, through the practice of the generation phase in which all perception dawns as the guru
And the profound perfection phase wherein wisdom and mind merge as one,
I may reach the stage of the exhaustion of all phenomena!
Bless me that environment and beings may dissolve into the space of the great sphere,
And appearance and existence may arise as the three kāyas, the display of awareness.
Bless me that within the primordial expanse of inner radiance, endowed with six special features,
I may reach the ultimate culmination of philosophical tenets!
Bless me that then, once more, through the power of spontaneously present compassion,
I may continue to arise for as long as space exists,
And, at the great level of Samantabhadra, the vidyādhara guru,
I may simultaneously liberate all beings!