Opening the Door to Great Bliss An Aspiration Towards the Realm of Abhirati
Namo guru vajra-akṣobhyāya! 1
In the space to the east of here lies
The supreme realm known as Abhirati.
To that precious treasury of boundless qualities,
Unimaginably wondrous in design, I pay homage.
Vast and expansive, delightful to behold,
It has mountains like the seven precious emblems;
Its golden ground is extensive and even,
And strewn with divine flowers—to this place I bow.
Here there are bodhi trees, jewels all interwoven,
And everywhere clear signs of good fortune.
Divine birds call out in the sweetest song,
And wishes are spontaneously fulfilled—to this place I bow.
There are bathhouses, delightful pools,
And great pleasure gardens, all surrounded
By an abundance of jewelled platforms
And thronged with the supreme pale elephant and other beasts—to this place I bow.
There is a three-storied palace that shines
In the radiant light of the lapis-blue sky,
And its roof of gold, ruby and sapphire 2
Is decorated with a jewelled vajra—to this place I bow.
In its centre, on a jewelled throne supported by elephants,
A multi-coloured lotus and the maṇḍala of a moon,
Is the victorious Akṣobhya, the lord of limitless light,
Dazzling and resplendent with the signs and marks—to whom I bow.
He is dressed in the three dharma robes;
His body and face adopt various forms.
He is the epitome of perfect enjoyment.
To the vajra-like victor Akṣobhya I bow.
His magical form emanates extensive rays of light;
His unending melodious speech sounds in all realms;
His mind of clear light is as immaculate as the sky;
His qualities and activity defy the imagination—to him I bow.
To the vast retinue, as infinite as the ocean,
Including the victor’s heir Gandhahastin, 3
Hosts of emanated noble śrāvakas, pratyekabuddhas and bodhisattvas,
As well as scholars and adepts from India and Tibet, I bow.
They all possess the most acute of faculties;
Their wealth is equal; and light from their forms
Fills the universe to leave no chance of darkness.
To those who lack the habits of birth, old age, sickness and death, I bow.
The retinue of the uncommon secret vajra family
Is limitless in its display of peaceful and wrathful guises.
To those who display the dance of vajra emanations
Together with many billions of vīras and ḍākinīs, I bow.
The Wheel of Mahāyāna teachings on causality is forever turning.
Even the name of suffering is unknown in this land of great bliss.
Hundreds of samādhi doors are entered and exited in an instant.
To this superior realm of buddhas and bodhisattvas, I bow.
With them you discourse upon the Dharma,
And enter oceans of realms and aeons in an instant.
Your lifespan is ten times a hundred thousand great aeons.
To you who teach the profound and vast Dharma, I bow.
In future, as you enter parinirvāṇa, your nirmāṇakāya emanations
Will teach the Dharma throughout the threefold universe, the ground will shake, 4
Sacred relics will appear and auspiciously shaped
Stūpas of the four elements will emerge—to you I bow.
For beings of the six classes afflicted by karma,
Such as those caught up in anger and aversion,
The mere thought of your name or sight of your mantra
Is enough to purify karma and obscurations gathered in an aeon—to you I bow.
With even a few droplets of Dharma’s nectar
You bring countless beings to the level of awakening,
Whence, invulnerable to Māra, they cannot be brought down.
To you, whose means, strength, aspirations and wisdom are all complete, I bow.
In the past, as the bhikṣu Dharmavarman
You set your mind upon awakening and made prayers of aspiration,
As a result of which your activity is supreme among all the buddhas.
To you, Lord Akṣobhya, I bow down in homage.
In reality, the teacher, the place and the retinue,
The Dharma and the time are all invariable.
To the unending wheel of adornment—eternal, pervasive,
Spontaneous, inconceivable and inexpressible—I bow.
Like this, I offer praise and call out to you in prayer.
I present offering clouds of real and imagined riches.
I confess all misdeeds and downfalls from every life.
I rejoice in every virtue within saṃsāra and nirvāṇa.
I implore you to turn the Wheel of Dharma extensively.
I beseech you not to pass into nirvāṇa but remain forever.
I dedicate all the virtues of the three times to all beings.
May they all be reborn in this realm of Abhirati!
For me and all who have a connection with me,
As soon as our breathing ceases, at that moment,
May the guru and blessed one Vajra Akṣobhya
Come to us directly and lead us to this realm.
As soon as we take birth there, may we behold the Buddha’s face,
Hear the sacred Dharma, and master perfecting, maturing and purifying.
Ultimately, may we become indivisible from Lord Akṣobhya himself
And through emanations bring benefit to beings in all the ten directions.
The victorious Lord Akṣobhya’s decision to awaken,
His activity, aspirations, knowledge, love and power,
His magical manifestation of unsurpassable wisdom—
May and I others come to have them too, just as they are.
With the supporting realm of Akṣobhya, who is supreme guide
For all the world, including the devas, and the supported inhabitants
Established clearly in the space of my mind,
I emanate bodies as numerous as atoms and prostrate to this protector.
In the knowledge that the nature of the supreme realm
Of Abhirati manifests within the light channel
Of subtle mirror-like wisdom at the centre of my heart,
The basis for the appearance of the five naturally emanated purelands, I prostrate.
Donning the armour that remains unyielding
Even in the onslaught of māras by the billion,
I prostrate before the glorious Akṣobhya-vajra,
Foremost of tathāgatas, lords of tenfold power.
In the past, in the presence of the sugata Mahācakṣu,
You developed an enlightening resolve unmatched by others,
And while carrying out activity, you remained supremely
Immovable 5 in the face of others’ malice—to you I bow.