The Concentration of Blessings Red Tārā Lineage Prayer
Guru deva ḍākinīye sarva siddhi phala hūṃ
From the dharmakāya palace of the ground’s basic space beyond complexity
Manifests the primordial buddha Changeless Light—
Out of an experience of non-duality free from fixation, I pray to you:
Inspire me to realize great primordial, ever present freedom.
From the spontaneous palace of radiant natural clarity
Manifests the saṃbhogakāya Lotus Lord of the Dance—
Out of the inseparability of space and awareness, I pray to you:
Inspire me to realize the intent of spontaneous presence.
From the emanational palace of immeasurable compassion
Manifests the venerable nirmāṇakāya Ārya Tārā—
Out of a state beyond grasping and attachment, I pray to you:
Inspire me to train beings in the most appropriate ways.
From the naturally present palace on Cāmara’s glorious mountain
Manifests Padmākara, face and embodiment of the three kāyas—
Out of a state beyond hope and fear, I pray to you:
Inspire me to bring appearance and existence under control.
From the vast domain of wisdom beyond imagining
Manifests the sovereign lord Tsangpa Lhayi Metok 1 —
In recollection of your kindness, I pray to you:
Inspire me to train beings and spread the teachings far and wide.
In the celestial realm of the Khecarī Vajra Queen
Is the ḍākinī Jñānasāgara, 2 Lady of Space—
Out of a state of bliss-emptiness beyond the mind, I pray to you:
Inspire me to develop the wisdom of the four joys.
From the emanated palace of the Three-Storey Central Temple
Manifests Prince Damdzin Chökyi Lodrö 3 —
Out of a state of intense and fervent devotion, I pray to you:
Inspire me to bring benefit to beings on a limitless scale.
In infinite realms beyond direction, wherever they may be,
Are the twenty-five disciples, Vairotsana and the rest—
With overwhelming confidence and trust, I pray to you:
Inspire me to bring disciples to maturity and freedom.
In the dharma palace of profoundly secret karma and aspirations
Is the sovereign lord Ösel Dorje Lingpa—
With devoted commitment beyond union and separation, I pray to you:
Inspire me to overcome dark forces, harmful influences and obstacles.
In the palace of power, red and semi-circular,
Is the maṇḍala of the fifteen goddesses of magnetizing—
From within the view of generation and completion, I pray to you:
Inspire me to realize the inseparability of the deity and my own awareness.
In the palace of commands and solemn pledges
Are oath-bound dharma protectors and guardians of the three lineages—
From a state of unwavering intent, I pray to you:
Inspire me to accomplish the four types of activity.
In the supreme place where wish-fulfilling jewels are stored
An ocean of treasure-keeping yakṣas and wealth deities reside—
From a state free of clinging and attachment, I pray to you:
Inspire me to overcome the misery of loss and deprivation.
In the great, infinite purity of appearance and existence,
Are the vajra brothers and sisters who maintain the samaya—
Out of a state of unfeigned pure perception, I pray to you:
Inspire us to awaken all together in a single gathering.
May the preliminary dharmas thoroughly refine my character,
The generation stage purify appearances into deities’ forms,
The mantra recitation naturally transform sound and language,
And the profound perfection stage purify wind-energy and mind.
May knots in the channels be released, karmic winds enter the central channel,
And essences not dissipate but accumulate at the chakra of the sky. 4
May I obtain the vajra kāya of immutable great bliss
And spontaneously bring twofold benefit to beings.