Accomplishing All Activity A Daily Practice of the Great and Glorious Dorje Drolö
Hūṃ, Environment and inhabitants, utterly pure, are Samantabhadrī’s expanse,
The universal radiance of compassion is the maṇḍala of Samantabhadra,
And the supreme offspring of their union is the bodhicitta of great bliss
In the form of a syllable Hūṃ, reddish-brown, which arises in space.
Light shines out, accomplishes twofold benefit, and is reabsorbed,
Then there appears the great and glorious Dorje Drolö, universal in splendour,
Reddish-brown, with one face, two hands and three eyes staring wide open,
His eyebrows and locks of hair are orange and stand on end.
He chews his lower lip and from the snow peaks of his teeth
Sends a storm of hail and sleet upon gyalpo , senmo and damsi ,
Dissolving the webs of their five aggregates into the dharmadhātu.
With his right hand he holds aloft a vajra of meteoric iron,
From which tiny wrathful forms burst out to strike enemies like thunder.
His left hand brandishes a kīla of meteoric iron,
From whose tip masses of fire and magical wheels blaze forth
To sear, crush and burn away harm-doers and obstacle-makers without trace.
He stands upon a pregnant tigress, who is menacingly poised,
With his two feet in the open stance of a fighter.
He wears a white undergarment to signify the perfection of pacifying;
He wears loose dharma robes to signify the perfection of enriching;
He wears a flowing maroon cloak to signify the perfection of magnetizing;
And a garland of heads hanging from his shoulders to signify the perfection of subjugation.
He appears clearly, in wrathful form, furious and devastating in his rage.
At his crown, arranged in tiers upon seats of lotus and moon
The gurus of the three lineages sit amidst rainbow-coloured lights of blessing.
In the central region gather hosts of yidam deities
From the four or six classes of tantra—like clouds filled with blessing rain.
Beneath are the ḍākinīs of the three places,
Constantly emanating and reabsorbing the red light of bliss and emptiness.
Surrounding them all are the hosts of guardians of the three categories, 1
Swirling like a violent storm and carrying out the four types of activity.
All the deities are in a state of wisdom, unified and of a single taste.
Awakened as forms of the web of magical illusion that pervades the whole of space,
Samayasattva and jñānasattva are non-dual from the very beginning,
Arising as an ornament within the vast expanse of bliss-emptiness.
The whole maṇḍala—principal deity and retinue—proclaims the sound of Hūṃ.
All appearances are transformed into the syllable Hūṃ;
All sounds reverberate as the sound of Hūṃ;
All thoughts and impressions are the evenness experience of Hūṃ.
I thus recite in a state without clinging or attachment, hope or fear:
Hūṃ! Hūṃ! Hūṃ!
At the end of the session, the Hūṃ syllables dissolve into the deities,
And the retinue dissolves into the heart of the main deity.
The main deity appears in the single-mudrā form.
And with clarity, pure recollection and stable pride,
I set about my regular daily activity.
Samaya.