The Inexpressible, Ultimate Confession
Oṃ! The natural maṇḍala of the supreme wisdom kāya
Has no elaborate complexity, just like the full moon,
Yet its compassion radiates as evenly as sunlight.
Approach now, I pray: consider me, and remain!
Inexpressible wisdom, which is the immovable dharmakāya;
Lords of the five families, the sambhogakāya of great bliss;
And deities who display vast compassion and skillful means,
Nirmāṇakāya, peaceful and wrathful: to you I pay homage!
Actual offerings and those created in the imagination,
As Samantabhadra’s unsurpassable, cloud-like bestowal,
Arranged extensively throughout space’s pure expanse—
With an ocean of outer, inner, and secret gifts, I offer!
Through an experience of single taste, beyond union and separation,
Wherein all the infinite maṇḍalas of the victorious buddhas
Are present in the secret bhaga of Samantabhadrī—
May non-dual bodhicitta delight you!
The nature of mind is the great space of dharmatā;
Phenomena, utterly pure, have always been clear light;
And the realm of this yoga is beyond speech and thought—
To this bodhicitta of equality, I offer perpetual homage!
Aḥ! Within the ever-excellent, originally expansive great perfection
Is the maṇḍala arrayed with outer, inner, and secret aspects;
Pure apparent existence is the sphere of male and female deities;
And elements and elemental, spontaneously perfect buddha pairs.
The great consort revels in the magnificent secret;
And in the sovereign lady’s lotus, the vast expanse of space,
Within the great non-dual bindu, there is clear light
And bodhi-essence kāya, uncontrived and unelaborate.
All that appears is the everlasting deity of great bliss.
In the secret maṇḍala that is beyond union and separation
Are sovereigns, male and female buddhas of the five families,
Bodhisattvas and hosts of wrathful ones, male and female.
Lord over hosts of vajra goddesses, master of the assembly,
Glorious ones of the five families, ten wrathful kings and consorts,
Female guardians of sacred lands and places, four female gatekeepers,
The many hosts of deities who are wisdom emanations,
Those who are caring like mothers and supportive as sisters,
Who determine good and bad and evaluate samaya,
Hosts of outer and inner ḍākinīs and yoginīs,
Witnesses and holders of vajra commitments, consider me!
Hūṃ! We vidyādharas, successors of the compassionate,
Generate bodhicitta for the sake of all living beings.
And, in order to progress to the unsurpassable state,
Uphold various disciplines from the oceanic teachings:
The supreme pledge to unite with enlightened body, speech, and mind,
The vajra samaya, terrible to transgress, ever to be maintained,
Both the general and special, higher commitments
We have received time and again and sworn to uphold.
We do not intentionally neglect or transgress our vows,
Waver in our purpose or turn away from it entirely,
Yet through the laziness of postponing actions,
We fail to gain mastery and have very little fortitude,
We lack vigilance and stray into carelessness.
We make no effort in meditation, neglect approach and accomplishment, and more.
Concerning the root samayas of body, speech, and mind, 1
Knowingly and unknowingly, through our own ignorance,
We transgress the teacher’s commands and contravene commitments.
“A yogi must never associate, even for an instant,
With one who has transgressed the samaya.”
Such is the command, yet we fail to observe it.
Confused as to the secret mantra’s entrance, discernment proves difficult;
Without higher perception, we do not recognize those at fault.
We mix with transgressors in the assembly and restore their transgressions;
We teach Dharma to transgressors and unsuitable recipients;
We do not avoid transgressors, but incur the fault of transgression and more;
Thus we have kept company with transgressors
And been sullied by their corrupting, transgressive influence.
Such failings, which affect this life and cause long-term obscuration,
We now confess with a mind of intense remorse and regret.
Consider us with loving kindness and compassion,
And secure us steadfastly in the non-dual realm.
As you abide in non-referential equanimity,
Grant us the ultimate, non-dual absolution!
In the ultimate, beyond reference and elaboration,
There is no conceptualizing thought whatsoever;
Yet should we err through the relative, mere illusion,
This we intensely regret: forgive us, we pray!