Wisdom’s Melody An Aspiration to Realize Madhyamaka, Mahāmudrā, and Mahā Ati
Samantabhadra, Vajradhara, and you, Mighty Sage, together with your close disciples
And oceanic deities of the Three Jewels, Three Roots, and dharmapālas—
Incomparable Gurus in whom the three secrets of myriad siddhas are primordially perfected:
Pray listen!
Having purified myself with the common and extraordinary preliminary practices:
Cultivating faith, renunciation, compassion, and wisdom;
With reliance upon the refuge of the Three Jewels, and the altruistic wish to benefit others,
May I enter the path pleasing to the victors!
The ultimate, essential nature of everything is emptiness ,
And the obscuring nature, devoid of self-characteristics , can arise interdependently as anything whatsoever.
Their union lies beyond all extremes and is the dhātu beyond aspiration —
May I actualize the Middle Way view of the supreme vehicle!
Through the threefold natural occurrence the co-emergence of mind itself is realized;
Experiencing the self-liberation of the four faults is the fourfold yoga .
Having found the deep confidence that the four kāyas are perfected within me,
May I realize the meditation of Mahāmudrā!
To realize the magical display of illusion, of appearance and mind as empty awareness,
Is to strike the vital point of the swift path of creation, recitation, method, and liberation;
To see saṃsāra and nirvāṇa arise as the dharmakāya is to take both happiness and suffering as the path.
May I dispel obstacles and enhance the practice through the conduct of single-taste !
Having liberated preoccupation with thought and hankering after self-characteristics into the primordially pure dhātu,
The four visions of spontaneous presence exhaust contamination whence it lies.
May I win the citadel of the dharmadhātu, the youthful kāya within a vase ,
And achieve the four visions of the resultant Great Perfection !
With swift compassion for all beings throughout space,
And to obtain the potential, ability, methods, and knowledge to tame those difficult ones —
Bringing about the amazing twofold spontaneous benefit —
May I emulate the awe-inspiring siddhas of the past!