Brief Homage to the Twenty-One Tārās
Oṃ ārya tārāyai!
Emptiness, supreme in aspect, pervading all existence and quiescence,
Is the source of all the awakened buddhas of past, present and future—
Goddess of Transcendent Wisdom (Prajñāpāramitā), great dharmakāya mother,
Reverend and noble mother, to you I pay homage!
Within the utterly pure realm Lotus Net,
You are the Buddha with eyes of wisdom as pure and unstained as a lotus,
Who brings blissful relief to all.
Reverend and noble mother, to you I pay homage!
To match the varied temperaments and capacities of those to be trained,
You take on magical forms and appear as is most effective,
Emanated goddess in your many guises: She who is swift and courageous;
Sarasvatī; She who grants supreme merit; Uṣṇīṣavijayā;
Kurukullā; She who causes terror;
Caṇḍālī the indomitable; She who is invincible;
She who conquers the three realms; She who bestows wealth; She who overpowers;
Goddess who brings auspiciousness; She who vanquishes opponents;
She who wears a wrathful frown; She who is perfect peace; Lady who is ablaze with light;
She of limitless subjugation; Majestic as the great peacock;
She who is unconquerable and victorious; Paranasabari, who dwells in mountain solitude;
And Mārīcī, ‘Rays of Light’—to you all I pay homage!
Through the power of these, my heartfelt prayers,
May I master bodhicitta, purify all appearances into deity form,
And gain proficiency in the generation and perfection stages!
May all adverse circumstances on the genuine path be pacified,
And may all be favourable so that all our wishes are fulfilled!
Having purified all non-virtuous, unwholesome action,
May we avoid others’ enmity and have no inauspicious dreams!
Bless us so that we may be protected from fears of the lower realms!
May we never take birth in the eight inopportune states,
Always remember our past lives and have faculties that function clearly.
May our discipline be pure as we practise Dharma with integrity!
Bless us so that we may be protected, guarded and shielded
From the ripening of mental afflictions and past karma!
Pacify unruly enemies, harmful influences, obstacle-makers and violence,
Untimely death, epidemics and illness brought on by poisoning!
And, having quelled and purified all such obstacles,
May we ultimately realize Noble Tārā’s wisdom and conduct!