Concise Mahāmudrā Preliminary Practice from the New and Old Secret Mantra’s Ripening and Liberating Practices of Generation and Completion Taking Refuge Visualization and Recitation of Vajrasattva Maṇḍala Offering Guru Yoga
Namo Mahāmudrāyai! 1
You embody all Buddhas of past, present, and future;
You are a wellspring of the sacred Dharma that teaches the two truths;
Great leader of the noble assembly, the oceanic Saṅgha—
Gracious root guru, I supplicate you!
Though I have attained the freedoms and riches, these pass before long, and end in death.
Upon death, there is no way to escape the good and bad deeds I have performed;
Wherever I am born within the three realms, there is nothing but suffering!
So I may swiftly gain freedom from this prison of saṃsāra,
I will apply my three gates of body, speech, and mind to virtuous action!
In the sky before me, amid an ocean of offering clouds
Is an immeasurable palace in which stand five lion thrones.
On the central throne sits gracious Vajradhara,
On the eastern throne are the yidam deities, on the southern throne Buddha Śākyamuni,
On the western throne the sacred Dharma, and on the northern throne Avalokiteśvara.
In brief, an ocean of precious objects of refuge
Is vividly present before me, like clouds billowing in the sky.
In their presence, I and all other beings without exception, in number infinite as space,
Devotedly go for refuge with body, speech, and mind.
To the gracious guru, peerless and sublime;
To the yidam deities; to Lord Buddha, the supreme teacher;
To the sacred Dharma, our protector; and to the Saṅgha, our guide—
To the Three Precious Ones, these rare jewels, we go for refuge.
I devotedly pay homage with body, speech, and mind.
I present you with vast clouds of offerings—outer, inner, and secret.
All misdeeds and downfalls I confess; in all virtue I rejoice.
Turning the wheel of Dharma, remain here forever, I pray!
All gatherings of virtue I dedicate to beings, infinite as space.
May we all attain buddhahood beyond abiding!
Each and every being, in number infinite as space, has been my parent in the past.
So that they may all attain the state of awakening,
I will train in the six perfections, the four means of gathering, and more:
The conduct of the spiritual warriors, the buddhas’ heirs.
May all beings have happiness, may they be free from suffering,
May their exalted joy never decline,
And may they abide in equanimity, the equal nature of all things.
The objects of refuge melt into light and dissolve into myself and all others.
Thus, our obscurations are cleansed and we attain buddhahood.
Above my head sits Guru Vajrasattva,
Radiant white, holding vajra and bell, in sambhogakāya attire.
In his heart centre, upon a moon disc, stands hūṃ encircled by the hundred syllables,
From which a stream of amṛta descends and enters me through my crown,
Filling my body completely. All misdeeds, obscurations, and downfalls exit
From my pores and flush out of my lower orifices.
My body becomes empty and clear, like a pristine crystal.
oṃ vajrasattva samayam | anupālaya | vajrasattvatvenopatiṣṭha | dṛdho me bhava | sutoṣyo me bhava | supoṣyo me bhava | anurakto me bhava | sarva-siddhiṃ me prayaccha | sarva-karmasu ca me | cittaṃ śreyaṃ kuru hūṃ | ha ha ha ha hoḥ | bhagavān sarva-tathāgata-vajra ma me muñca | vajrī bhava mahāsamaya sattva āḥ ||
Protector, due to my ignorance and lack of understanding,
I have transgressed and violated my samayas.
Guru and protector, please grant me refuge!
Sovereign vajra holder,
Lord of great compassion,
King of beings, in you I take refuge.
Vajrasattva smiles and absolves me
Of all my misdeeds and obscurations, then dissolves into me—simplicity.
oṃ vajrabhūmi āḥ hūṃ |
The earth is the golden ground, completely pure, full of beauty and power.
oṃ vajra-rekhe āḥ hūṃ |
The circular iron mountain wall completely surrounds it; in the centre is the letter hūṃ—
Meru, the king of mountains;
In the East is Pūrvavideha, in the South is Jambudvīpa,
In the West is Aparagodānīya, in the North is Uttarakuru.
Beside them are Deha and Videha, Cāmara and Aparacāmara,
Śāthā and Uttaramantriṇa,
Kurava and Kaurava.
The jewel mountain, the wish-fulfilling trees,
The wish-fulfilling cows, the harvest which needs no sowing,
The precious wheel, the precious gem,
The precious queen, the precious minister,
The precious elephant, the precious horse,
The precious general, the vase of great treasure,
The goddess of beauty, the goddess of garlands,
The goddess of song, the goddess of dance,
The goddess of flowers, the goddess of incense,
The goddess of light, the goddess of perfume,
The sun, the moon, the precious umbrella,
The royal banner victorious in all directions:
There is all the bountiful wealth of gods and men, complete and flawless—
All this:
I offer—
Please accept it, with compassion, for the benefit of beings.
Having accepted it, please grant your blessing!
The earth is perfumed with scented water and strewn with flowers;
it is adorned with Mount Meru, the four continents, the sun, and the moon.
Imagining it all as the realm of the buddhas,
I offer it, a pure realm for all beings to enjoy!
idam ratna-maṇḍala-kam nirya tayāmi
I observe my body not as solid, real, or concrete:
It is vividly present as the unified net of empty-appearance.
Above my head, upon a lion throne, lotus, and moon disc,
Sits the gracious guru, of kindness impossible to repay.
In the form of Vajradhara, whose attire he wears,
He presides in the midst of an ocean of great Kagyü adepts.
I imagine him thus, as the glory and splendor of both existence and peace.
With devotion I prostrate, make offerings, and confess misdeeds.
I rejoice in virtue, beseech you to turn the wheel of Dharma
And to remain forever. These roots of virtue, I dedicate to beings.
May we all accomplish the glorious guru!
All mother beings, equal in number to the infinity of space, pray to the guru, the precious buddha.
All mother beings, equal in number to the infinity of space, pray to the guru, the all-pervading dharmakāya.
All mother beings, equal in number to the infinity of space, pray to the guru, the sambhogakāya of great bliss.
All mother beings, equal in number to the infinity of space, pray to the guru, the compassionate nirmāṇakāya.
To Lodrö Rinchen Vajradhara;
Exalted Nāgārjuna, Guardian of Bliss;
Adept Saraha; sovereign lord Maitripa;
Translator Marpa; Laughing Vajra; 5
Physician Dakpo, 6 precious protector of beings;
Taklung Tangpa, guru of beings in all three realms:
To the golden garland of gurus of the upper and lower 7 ultimate lineages,
And to you, my magnificent root guru, who completely embodies all
Of their wisdom of knowledge, compassion, and power,
And appears to those of us with faith—to you, our sole refuge, I pray!
My being has been purified through the preliminaries, and I have trained in the two types of bodhicitta.
The gurus’ blessings have suffused the bindus of my three gates.
Through the samādhi of clear insight laid upon the ground of calm abiding,
The true face of the innate natural state, uncontrived simplicity is directly seen.
May I accomplish the Dakpo Kagyü of self-liberation!
From the four vajras of the four places of the thus-invoked gracious guru
White, red, blue, and yellow light rays
Stream out and dissolve into my four places,
So the four obscurations are purified, the four empowerments obtained, and the four kāyas planted within.
The guru melts into light and fully merges with me.
In the continuum of equal taste inseparable from the three secrets,
I let be in the state of unceasing luminosity, the Great Seal.
Through this virtue, having swiftly accomplished
The state of the Glorious Guru,
May I establish all wandering beings,
Without a single exception, at that very level.