The Quintessence of Marvellous Nectar A Prayer Based on the Liberational Life of the Gentle Protector Guru
Wisdom embodiment of twofold omniscience pervading the dharmadhātu,
Resplendent amidst an ocean of illusory forms in all the pure realms,
You appeared in the form of a lord of the maṇḍala to tame the likes of me—
Jamyang Chökyi Lodrö, to you I pray.
Khyentse Wangpo was the embodiment of the universal wisdom
Of countless charioteers of the teachings from the Land of Āryas and Tibet.
You were his intentional emanation, a splendour of the teachings and beings,
Praised in vajra prophecies—to you I pray.
You were installed on the dharma throne at Katok, the true Vajra Seat,
And the all-seeing Chökyi Gyatso 1
Invested you with the supreme vehicle’s sovereignty of the three sets of vows.
To you, in whom liberating study and contemplation flourished, I pray.
You mastered all the outer and inner fields of knowledge,
And maintained a pure life of exposition, debate and composition.
Source of maturing and liberating Dharma, sole charioteer
Of the supreme teachings, to you I pray.
You mastered the qualities of two-stage samādhi,
And unlocked a treasury of mnemonic retention ( dhāraṇī ) and courageous eloquence.
You saw the secret of the sūtras and tantras, profound and vast, and gained realization.
Master of upholding, propagating and gathering, to you I pray.
The teachings of the old and new Kadam, Lamdré, Marpa and Shangpa Kagyü,
Pacifying (Zhijé), Severance (Chöd), Jonang and Zhalu Kālacakra,
And the kama and terma of the Ancient Translations—you masterfully studied them all.
To you, who then disseminated them throughout the Land of Snows, I pray.
In reality, through elimination and realization, you attained the level of an ārya.
For those of limited vision, you displayed acts in accordance with the Dharma.
Uninvolved in the eight worldly concerns, you untied the knots of hope and fear.
Delusion-conquering lord of yogins, to you I pray.
You continually beheld the smiling faces of the deities of the Three Roots.
Through the doors of Dharma, entrustment, blessings and regular recitation,
You spontaneously accomplished the twofold benefit, like a great sun
Of benefit and happiness banishing troubles for the teachings and beings—to you I pray.
When you reached the end of your ever-perfect vajra life of liberation,
You displayed your final act accompanied by wondrous signs.
Then, once more, for the sake of the teachings and to train disciples who remained
You arose in a sun-like emanation—to you I pray.
By recalling your liberational life, O glorious protector guru,
And praying to you, may I gain the corresponding realization.
May the dawning devotion of seeing all your deeds as positive
Draw the sun of mind-direct transmission into my heart.
O protector, when you ultimately display the attainment of awakening,
May I be there among your closest heirs and hold your wisdom treasury.
Through the three means of delight, may I blend my mind with your wisdom,
And may I be able to accomplish all the Gentle Protector’s enlightened deeds.