Brief Supplementary Text for Intensive Practice (Drupchö) of the Sublime Lady of Immortality (Chimé Pakmé Nyingtik) 1. Preparations 1. Preparation of the Deity 2. Preparation of the Vase 2. Main Part 3. Conclusion Aspiration Prayer
Namo gurvī-tārā-cintācakrāyai! 1
All those who dwell in this place—gods and nāgas,
Yakṣas, rākṣasas, and others—
For the sake of this maṇḍala, in this place,
I pray: please grant us the space!
oṃ vajrāmṛta-kuṇḍali hana hana hūṃ phaṭ
oṃ svabhāva śuddhāḥ sarvadharmāḥ svabhāva śuddho ‘haṃ
Out of emptiness arises the front visualization.
Within the expanse of the five elements—the five consorts—
Stands the celestial mansion of great liberation, formed of precious crystal...etc.
Oṃ! Deities of the maṇḍala of Immortal Tārā,
Mother of all the buddhas,
Please remember the sacred pledge you took earlier
And think of me!
I, a vidyādhara,
By using all the various substances,
Will enjoy the wealth of great bliss,
And thus make offerings to the deities.
For the benefit of beings
I will accomplish the maṇḍala of the essence
Through the great method of this mantric ritual
When beseeching you to accomplish the benefit of myself and others,
Through your great wisdom and compassion,
Bear with me and accomplish it!
Please grant your blessings so I may realize
The world and all beings
As indivisible from the three vajras of Immortal Tārā!
oṃ vajrāmṛta-kuṇḍali hana hana hūṃ phaṭ
oṃ svabhāva śuddhāḥ sarvadharmāḥ svabhāva śuddho ‘haṃ
From the state of emptiness, upon a lotus and moon disk,
Arises a five-coloured syllable bhrūṃ,
Which transforms into an excellent vase,
Its exterior made from precious jewels,
Perfect in its design, and blazing with light.
Inside, the deities abide
In a vast, immeasurable palace made of jewels.
In its centre, on a four-petalled lotus, are…etc.
Inside the vase, in the heart of the Noble Lady,
Is the wisdom being 9 Amitāyus.
He is brilliant white and holds a long-life vase, in the mudrā of meditative equipoise,
And is adorned with silks and jewelled ornaments.
He is seated resplendently in vajra posture upon a lotus and moon-disc seat
Amidst radiating rays of light.
In the centre of his heart is a lotus, sun, and moon-disc seat,
Upon which is tāṃ encircled by the mantra garland.
Reciting the mantra evokes his wisdom mind,
Causing a stream of boundless light to burst out
From the tip of the uṣṇīṣa’s jewel.
From it appears the sublime Vijayā,
The colour of crystal.
Her right hand holds an iron hook with the gesture of granting refuge,
And her left holds a long-life vase with the gesture of supreme giving.
Along with brilliant rays of light,
Limitless forms of herself stream out like specks of dust in sunlight.
From my heart the mantra garland flows
Through the dhāraṇī-cord,
Which invokes the wisdom minds of the deities of the vase.
Clouds of light rays—the play of bliss and emptiness—
Completely illuminate the whole of space,
Make offerings to the noble ones, and fulfil all beings’ aims.
Gathering back, they coil around the vital essence of her heart.
From her body and the mantra, a boundless flow of ambrosia
Gushes forth and transforms the contents of the vase
Into the essence of all accomplishments.
oṃ āḥ hūṃ
The deities —the essence of great bliss— dissolve into light and become a stream of vajra-ambrosia that grants the accomplishments of immortal life and primordial wisdom.
In the activity vase on a lotus and sun-disc
Is Padma Hayagrīva, red in colour.
He has two hands which hold a lotus and bell,
Is adorned with all the charnel ground ornaments, and stands in striding posture.
From his body flows a stream of vajra-ambrosia,
Which fills the vase.
oṃ hrīḥ padmāntakṛta sarva-vighnān hana hana hūṃ phaṭ
Hayagrīva, glorious king of wrathful ones, please enact your activity of averting all obstacle-making demons until the activities of granting empowerments has been accomplished!
Imagine that the empowerment substances transform into wisdom appearances which have the nature of the completely pure essence, the basic space of phenomena, and become like a jewel that grants accomplishment and blessing.
bhrūṃ viśva vishuddhe | tāṃ hrīḥ bhrūṃ | tāṃ bhrūṃ hrīḥ hūṃ | jaḥ hūṃ baṃ hoḥ | phaṭ jaḥ
bhrūṃ viśva vishuddhe | oṃ tāre tuttāre ture sarva-maṇḍala | phaṭ jaḥ
From my heart radiate red rays of light,
Invoking the wisdom minds of the deities.
From them, inconceivable rays of light burst forth
And gather the vital essences of saṃsāra and nirvāṇa, which dissolve into the deities' hearts.
The deities are about to grant the accomplishments, and remain ablaze with wisdom’s splendour.
oṃ āḥ hūṃ svāhā | mūṃ lāṃ māṃ pāṃ tāṃ | tāre tutāre tūre sarva-tathāgata āyurjñāna māha-puṇye tiṣhṭha oṃ | kāya vāka citta guna karma sarva-siddhi phala hoḥ
Hrīh! Naturally arising light suffuses the maṇḍalas of the ten directions
And gathers all the accomplishments of unchanging life.
They dissolve into the accomplishment substances, which have the nature of ambrosia,
And swirl in an ocean of wisdom, merit, and longevity.
Hrīh! All the immortal vajra-maṇḍalas
Are found nowhere but in your own basic space.
Having been liberated from the darkness of samsāra’s ignorance,
The great door of immaculate wisdom opens in its own place.
At first the pure dharmatā dawns;
Then the daylight of increase in experience breaks;
And the sun of awareness reaching full maturity arises;
Finally, when the darkness of conceptual thoughts, the Lord of Death, is completely exhausted
The increase of wisdom appearances is perfected.
This very moment, grant us accomplishment!
Now, lead me into the great inner space indivisible from
The dharmadhātu, the great kingdom of Samantabhadra.
Bestow the great empowerment of the spontaneously present five kāyas.
Bestow the accomplishment of the ornament of inexhaustible qualities.
Make the unbiased activities of the victorious ones spread far and wide,
And spontaneously accomplish the benefit of beings, without interruption!
Hūṃ! In this maṇḍala of the essence, nature, and compassion,
Headed by the teacher, Amitāyus in person,
We remain connected with our spiritual siblings.
With this samādhi of one-pointed accompaniment,
Exemplified by this illuminating candlelight,
And through the strength of a thousand wisdom lights,
May we not stray into the darkness of ignorance.
May we never hear the cry of the vicious beast of the Lord of Death.
Having dispelled all risings of the five poisonous emotions,
When we are about to wander in the abyss of saṃsāra—life and death—
May your lamp of wisdom and compassion be not weak.
May Pemachen lead us along the path of longevity,
The hosts of Immortal Ladies grant us long life,
And the Lord of Life and his consort stabilize our life-force.
May the mighty king Hayagrīva remove all obstacles,
And the swift offering goddesses protect us all around.
Gradually traversing the four visions of luminosity,
May we attain the immortal vajra body!