Song of Devotion A Prayer to Lord Marpa Lotsāwa
Precious lord, true embodiment of the buddhas of the three times,
Glorious Hevajra in a body of manifestation—
Precious lord Marpa Lotsāwa, to you I pray:
Inspire me, a devoted child, with your blessings.
Great forefather of the lineage of the four transmissions, 1
With mastery over all aspects of mind and phenomena,
Great leader guiding an ocean of glorious adepts,
Lord of Lhodrak, I recall you in the depths of my heart.
Precious lord, seven times you travelled to the noble land of India,
And with a treasury of instructions from glorious Nāro and Maitrī,
You, father and guru to all beings, satisfied your wisdom mind.
You distributed this treasure trove of precious jewels,
Profound Dharma from the secret mantra vehicle,
And became a father to your heart-born son—
Jé Mila, whose name alone serves
To assuage the sufferings of the lower realms,
The crowning ornament of all the adepts of Bhoṭa. 2
Ultimate refuge, whose form is like a wish-granting gem,
In places such as the hermitage of Trowo valley
And the manifest temple at glorious Sekhar,
You are the precious lord of Dharma, the heruka,
Who dwells in delight with Nairātmyā. 3
And who, with oceanic tantras of definitive secret Dharma,
Matured and liberated hosts of fortunate disciple-children.
Precious lord who has a buddha’s mind in a human body,
With your heirs, you carried out the victorious ones’ activity.
If only you were here right now, how happy I would be!
But I am bereft, O protector, with no chance to see your face—
A child of evil karma mired in the fault of obscurations.
O Father, as you dwell in the dharmadhātu,
The play of nirmāṇakāya and sambhogakāya forms continues,
Leading infinite assemblies, pure and impure,
To the fruitional state of great awakening.
Precious lord, your activity is as pervasive as space itself.
You brought the light of purity to the benighted land of Tibet.
And with innumerable mantra adepts and vidyādharas
Spread the teachings of the glorious practice lineage throughout the world.
O protector, no other life of liberation can compare to yours.
You who are inseparable from glorious Saraha,
Great father translator, I recall your kindness.
You who reached the peak of the thirteen stages,
Glorious Vajradhara with the seven aspects of union,
Who manifested perfectly in an ordinary form,
Great lord of Lhodrak, to you I pray.
Your body has the majestic splendour of a hundred suns,
Your speech resounds with the melodious tones of Dharma,
And your mind is profound peace, bliss-emptiness, great luminosity—
O Father, the blessings of your three secrets are beyond compare.
If I can supplicate you with devotion,
I trust that you, precious lord, will not fail me.
Now is the time for patrimonial blessings
To be imparted to me, child that I am.
Turn this stubborn mind of mine toward the path of liberation;
Tear apart the web of clinging to appearances as real;
Let the constructs of dualistic perception cease within basic space;
Allow me to sustain, at all times without interruption
The clear light of mind’s own unborn awareness;
Cause all sensory perceptions to be freed, just as they are;
And make me your equal, O precious lord, in wisdom intent.