A Shortcut to the Siddhi of Immortality Guru Yoga of Union with the Three Deities of Long Life
Namo guru tri-ayurdevebhyaḥ! 1
oṃ śūnyatājñāna vajra-svabhāv-ātmako ‘ham
In the natural state of clear light, without reference to anything in the universe or any being,
The display of the samādhi of union
Manifests the beautiful pure universe of the buddhafield of Great Bliss and its beings,
Ravishing and perfectly arranged.
I appear in my ordinary form, vivid and clear.
Above my head, amidst a profusion of most excellent offerings,
My root guru sits on a white lotus and a moon,
In the form the Bhagavatī, Sublime Wish-fulfilling Wheel
So I may receive supreme long life and wisdom.
The colour of stainless crystal, endowed with the marks and signs,
She has the serene, youthful beauty of a sixteen-year-old.
With one face with three eyes,
Her four wisdom eyes mark the palms of her two hands and the soles of her two feet,
Indicating that she can see the seven causes of enlightenment.
Her right hand forms the mudrā of supreme giving, conjuring great clouds
From which everything that brings well-being and joy rains down – as it did in the Golden Age.
Her left hand indicates that she is the embodiment of the victorious ones of the three times,
And holds an utpala flower that takes away all fear of saṃsāra and nirvāṇa.
She looks beautiful in a blouse of white silk, a red skirt
And adorned with many jewels, as she sits in vajra posture
With the moon as her backrest.
Above her head is the lord of the lotus family, Amitāyus Infinite Life,
Brilliant white, tinged with red, his hands, in meditation mudrā, hold a long-life vase.
Blazing with the glory of the marks and signs, wearing the silk and jewel ornaments.
Joyfully, he sits on a lotus and a moon, his two legs in vajra posture.
Born from his uṣṇīṣa, the Sublime Victorious Lady, Uṣṇīṣavijayā,
Appears amidst dazzling light. She is the colour of an autumn moon,
With three faces – white, yellow and blue – and eight arms;
Each face has three eyes, beaming with pleasure.
Her first right hand holds a vajra of various colours,
The second a white lotus on which Amitāyus sits,
The third an arrow, and the fourth forms the mudrā of supreme giving.
Her first left hand holds a vajra noose,
The second a bow, the third forms the mudrā of granting refuge,
And the fourth forms the meditation mudrā and holds a vase of nectar.
Wearing all the silk and jewel ornaments, she sits in full lotus.
Every part of each of the three deities’ bodies shines brightly,
Sending infinite rays of light throughout the ten directions.
At the tip of each ray appear infinite pure buddha fields –
In number equal to the atoms in the universe –
Where all the lamas, yidams, buddhas, bodhisattvas,
Vidyādharas, rishis with power of over life,
Dharma protectors and wealth deities assemble in an immense, cloud-like gathering.
They all appear, yet are empty – kāyas of the magical net.
The three places of each deity are marked with the three syllables,
Which radiate light to invite the wisdom beings, who dissolve into the samayasattvas,
Now their nature is such that they embody all sources of refuge.
To you who are the wisdom of discernment,
To the deity of long life who grants supreme immortality to those who think of you,
The manifest form of the lama who is the embodiment of all refuge,
I prostrate with whole-hearted devotion.
Buddha of Infinite Life, foremost guide of beings in this world,
Your glory overcomes all untimely death,
You are a refuge for those of us who suffer without protection—
To you, Buddha Amitāyus, I prostrate!
Glorious goddess, the colour of the autumn moon,
Graced with the most beautiful, peaceful body, three faces and eight arms,
You who bestow primordial wisdom and infinite life,
Uṣṇīṣavijayā, at your feet I bow!
The deity I accomplished lifetimes ago,
Embodiment of the activities of all the buddhas of the three times,
Pure white, with one face, two hands and seven eyes,
Mother who holds an utpala flower, I pay homage to you!
All the buddhas and bodhisattvas of the ten directions,
All the rishis and vidyādharas with power over life,
And the oceans of Dharma protectors and wealth deities,
I prostrate to you with the purest motivation!
Here are vast quantities of real and imagined offerings.
I confess all my negative actions and faults, and rejoice in virtue,
Please remain here, continuously turning the wheel of dharma wheel for hundreds of kalpas, I pray;
All virtue illustrated by these six offerings, I dedicate to the heart of enlightenment.
Through the power of my prostrations, offerings and prayers,
Bless me and all sentient beings.
May we obtain the support of a precious human body lifetime after lifetime
And meet pure spiritual friends.
Bless us so we may perfect discipline, hearing, reflection and meditation,
Master renunciation and the two bodhicittas fully,
Accomplish the vast conduct of the victorious’ heirs,
And so act for the benefit of ourselves and others.
In particular, pacify all negative circumstances that impede dharma practice,
Such as sickness, negative influences, negative karma, obscurations, harm and so on.
Grant your blessings so that our lives are lengthened, our merit, wealth, wisdom of knowledge and realisation of the teachings increase,
And our capacity to benefit and bring happiness expands.
oṃ tāre tuttāre ture mama āyur puṇya jñāna puṣṭiṃ kuru svāhā
Through the power of reciting this prayer with all concentration,
Light streams from the heart of the lama, Wish-fulfilling Wheel,
From the lord of the lotus family, Amitāyus
And the jewel on his uṣṇīṣa,
Rays of light invoke sublime, victorious Uṣṇīṣavijayā’s wisdom mind.
A strong desire to accomplish compassionate activities flares up in all the deities
And they radiate infinite rays of light that fill all the worlds of the ten directions,
Gathering my interrupted, corrupted and scattered la-vitality and length of life, 2
The quintessence of the four elements
And all the longevity, merit, wealth, wisdom and qualities
Of saṃsāra and nirvāṇa fill the vase
Held by Amitāyus in the form of five-coloured light.
A shower of the sweet nectar of immortality
Rains down from the continuously overflowing vase
And from every part of the deities’ bodies – the field of accumulation.
The nectar flows into my body through the crown of my head,
Filling me completely and eliminating all sickness, negative influences, negative karma and obscurations.
Any interruption, corruption or scattering of our la-vitality and life is naturally restored,
Long life, merit, wealth, and the qualities of knowledge of the teachings and realisation grow,
And I attain the level of original immortality.
oṃ amaraṇi jīvantaye svāhā
All the deities of the field of accumulation melt into light and dissolve into me.
In the natural state of original primordial wisdom,
My three doors indivisible from the three secrets of the objects of refuge,
I look into the face of the dharmakāya, the fundamental nature of clear light.
Through this merit, may my life and the lives of all sentient beings
Be long, free from illness, and graced with the dharma.
In the next life, may we be born in the buddhafield of Great Bliss
And quickly attain the realisation of the protector Infinite Life.