The Shower of Great Bliss A Prayer to the Lineage of the Female Awareness-Holder (Yumka)
The all-pervading space of the ground , endowed with six special features, is Samantabhadra.
The ground ’s manifestation, wisdom’s display, is Vajrasattva.
The one who reveals the path of the ground ’s primordial freedom is Garab Dorje.
To you I pray: grant me the wisdom of great bliss!
Mañjuśrīmitra—‘Friend of Mañjuvajra Luminosity ’,
Śrī Siṃha, who perfected the four visions of luminosity ,
Jñānasūtra, who saw the luminosity that is an adornment of basic space—
To you I pray: grant me the wisdom of great bliss!
Vimalamitra, who gained the immortal body of great transference, 1
Master Mighty Skull Garland, 2 who attained immortality ,
King Trisong Detsen, who actualized the immortal natural state—
To you I pray: grant me the wisdom of great bliss!
Great bliss is the reality body, Samantabhadrā,
And bliss-emptiness is the enjoyment body, the Vajra Queen in actuality.
Supreme bliss is the mother of all the buddhas, Yeshe Tsogyal.
To you I pray: grant me the wisdom of great bliss!
In the vajra body ’s sacred places and lands, and charnel grounds,
Reside the vajra forms of field-born, mantra-born and innate ḍākinīs.
To the vajra-maṇḍala of the three seats of completeness
I pray: grant me the wisdom of great bliss!
Playful emanation of the single family , the genuine wisdom of union,
From whom various families emanate and into whom they’re re-absorbed.
Jigdral Lingpa, 3 lord who presides over every buddha family —
To you I pray: grant me the wisdom of great bliss!
In the maṇḍala where the three secrets arise as wisdom
Is the Primordial Protector who is honoured by the leaders of the three realms.
To the vidyādhara root and lineage masters of the three times,
I pray: grant me the wisdom of great bliss!
Through the power of praying with unwavering devotion in this way, bless me so that
I may recall the difficulty of gaining freedoms and advantage and the uncertainty of the time of death,
The infallibility of karmic cause and effect and a knowledge of what to adopt and avoid may arise within my heart.
And I may come to master uncontrived renunciation!
With my mind moistened by the nectar of twofold bodhicitta,
In devotion to the guru, I take on the ultimate transmission.
Having received ripening empowerments and taken on samayas,
May I be inspired with the ability to properly maintain them!
Inspire me so that whatever appears is purified as the realm of the Vajra Queen,
Sound is perfected as the melody of vajra-nāda, 4
And thoughts mature as great primordial wisdom,
Which is like the indestructible sphere of space.
Bless me so that temporarily the interdependent circumstances for the three gatherings come together 5
And the treasury of three blazings 6 and two wisdoms is unlocked.
Thus may I effortlessly attain the eight great accomplishments
And master the four types of enlightened activity.
Bless me so that ultimately the channels, wind-energies and essences dissolve into the central channel,
Bringing realization of the wisdom of primordial alpha-purity,
And, on the secret, indestructible path of spontaneously present luminosity,
I may attain the level of union!