Rain of Twofold Attainment: A Guru Yoga Gathering the Accumulations Prayer Mantra Recitation
Namo gurave!
Ah. My own perception is the pure realm of Akaniṣṭha,
Perfectly arranged, with a sky in which there appears,
Amidst rays and spheres of shimmering rainbow light,
Upon a lion throne and vast cushions of finest silk,
Pema Yeshe Dorje,
White with a reddish glow, dressed in dharma robes.
His head is adorned with the red hat of a paṇḍita,
And his two legs are crossed in vajra posture.
His right hand is in the mudrā of teaching the Dharma, his left in that of equipoise.
I visualize him clearly as the embodiment of all objects of refuge,
His three centres marked by the three syllables.
I prostrate to the vajra master,
Glorious embodiment of the buddhas of past, present and future!
With a mind free from all duality,
I take refuge in the Three Jewels, the objects of reliance!
I request that you accept these pure offerings,
Both actual and envisioned.
My faults, the hindrances that cut the flow of siddhis,
I confess without exception.
In all those actions throughout the ten directions, done without attachment,
And free from concepts of subject, object and action, I rejoice!
I awaken the perfect bodhicitta,
Pure, untainted by the four extremes.
To the sugatas, mighty lords and sentient beings
I offer my body for the threefold purpose.
Gathering the merits accumulated throughout all my lives,
I dedicate them to supreme enlightenment!
Blessed by Padma, you uphold the Kama and Terma teachings,
And keep the secret treasure of oceanic wisdom,
Dorje Zibar Tsal, to you I pray:
Grant me the attainments, ordinary and supreme.
oṃ āḥ guru jñāna padma vajra sarva siddhi phala hūṃ
Watch over me! Watch over me! O embodiment of the Three Roots,
Dharma king, the mere thought of whom is sufficient,
Incomparable great treasury of attainments,
Glorious guru, may you watch over me!
From the three vajra syllables at the guru’s three centres,
Rays of white, red and blue light, adorned with replica forms,
Syllables and hand implements, stream down like falling rain,
And dissolve into me gradually and all at once. Through this,
My obscurations are purified and I receive the four empowerments,
I am authorized to practice the four paths, and the seeds of the four kāyas are implanted within my mindstream.
Finally, the guru is transformed into an orb of five-coloured light,
Like a ball of twine,
Which swiftly dissolves into my heart,
And beyond dualistic thought, I sustain the true face of my genuine nature.
Through this virtue, throughout all my lives,
May I always be cared for by the glorious guru,
May I be liberated by the nectarous counsel of his secret speech,
And may act boundlessly on behalf of the teachings and beings.