Music to Delight the Ḍākinī A Praise to the Deathless Mandāravā
Namo gurujñāna dākinyai!
From pristine primordial wisdom
Your union-form appears, of major and minor marks.
By our act of recalling it, ultimate life and wisdom are bestowed.
Deathless Mandāravā, I offer you praise!
You are a mesmerizing beauty, like a lotus ruby.
Your smile displays the unity of existence and peace.
Your flashing eyes reveal the three liberations.
You free all beings from saṃsāra: I offer you praise!
With your curved knife of supreme compassion raised aloft in your right hand,
You steal away the four māras’ hearts. And then,
With your left hand holding the amṛta-filled skull-cup,
You bestow the siddhis upon practitioners: I offer you praise!
Your skillful-means consort is Mighty Skull-Garland Lotus,
Heruka of the four kāyas and the five pristine wisdoms.
He cradles you in his left arm in khaṭvāṅga’s form,
And so arouses exultant union: I offer you praise!
Your shiny black hair falls gracefully down your back
And is adorned at your crown with a stunning puṇḍarīka flower.
Wearing silks and jewels and the symbolic bone ornaments,
You cut right through the spindle of thoughts: I offer you praise!
Your right leg is drawn in, for you dwell not in existence,
And your left leg is extended, for you renounce the extreme of peace.
Thus you dance upon the heart of duality’s dead body
And so enter the union that transcends all anguish: I offer you praise!
Whoever sees your body gains the boon of the two siddhis.
Whoever hears your sacred speech, they blaze with the wisdom of great bliss.
For whoever thinks of you, all obstacles to longevity are cleared away.
O foremost ḍākinī queen, I offer you praise!
In this great maṇḍala where environment and beings Are manifest as the nonduality of profound clarity,
We invoke your wisdom mind through mantra recitation
And let be in the continuous union of basic space and awareness.
As by this means, wholeheartedly, we approach your noble lotus feet,
Please show us your smiling face––in actuality, visions, and dreams!
Grant us poise and assurance with your sacred speech!
Grant us long life, merit, prosperity, and the wisdom of the ten powers,
And help us to swiftly reach the deathless state!