Summoning Prosperity
Kye! In the prosperity field of dharmakāya, the indestructible rainbow body,
We summon the prosperity of spheres and rays of rainbow light, unceasing, in five colours,
From the space of the four visions, the celestial realm of clear light!
Grant us the accomplishment of the rainbow body of great transference!
From the hidden lands of the Guru and islands of ḍākas and ḍākinīs,
Where the whole environment is filled with gods and goddesses,
We summon the prosperity of the supreme and ordinary accomplishments and whatever we desire!
Grant us the accomplishments of increasing life, splendour and merit!
In this prosperity field where all the desirable objects throughout existence and quiescence are amassed,
And which is filled with handsome youths in all their finery, performing offerings,
We summon the prosperity of offspring, wealth and whatever we desire!
Grant us all the accomplishments of bountiful glory and riches!
We offer the drink of prosperity, auspicious silken arrows, and buttered flour,
And all the offerings that delight the great gods throughout existence.
From above, let the five yakṣa brothers bring us wealth and prosperity!
From below, let the tsomen and tenma grant us accomplishments!
From in-between, let the dü and tsen , the seven blazing brothers
And the supreme being Dorje Lekpa bring all that we wish for!
In this very land and location, let auspiciousness and glory blaze
And your activity of spreading the wholesome Dharma be performed!
Let those with bodhicitta, who perform pacifying activity
Heal all illness, harmful influences, negativity and obscurations!
Let those of the ratna family, who perform enriching activity
Grant us the accomplishment of increased life and merit!
Let those of the padma family, who perform magnetizing activity
Grant the accomplishment of bringing the three realms under our control!
Let those of the karma family, who perform subjugating activity
Grant us the capacity to annihilate the forces that oppose us and obstruct us!
Whatever we wish for, without exception—grant us the accomplishment to bring it all about!