The Bright Lamp of the Heart Essence: A Guru Yoga
Namo Gurave!
A! My own rigpa, primordially pure, is the dharmakāya,
Its inherent clarity, spontaneously perfect, is the saṃbhogakāya,
Rigpa's display, compassionate energy, is the nirmāṇakāya—
By recognizing the very essence of my mind, I take refuge!
A! Sentient beings are deluded by ignorance,
To bring them to the level of the three kāyas,
I shall train in bodhicitta—in both aspiration and in action,
And, within great self-liberation, arouse the awakening mind.
May all beings have happiness,
May they be free from every form of suffering,
May they never be separated from happiness,
And may they abide in equanimity towards all phenomena.
A! In the sky before me, in an expanse of rainbow light,
Upon a lion throne, and seats of lotus, sun and moon,
On a tiger skin with its four paws spread out,
Sits Pema Yeshe Dorje,
In the form of a glorious heruka yogin,
Dark red, with a wrathful, smiling expression,
His right hand playing a skull-drum,
And his left hand resting in a gesture of equanimity, holding a skullcup,
Wearing bone ornaments with tiny, tinkling bells, and a tiger-skin skirt,
A vajra trident in the crook of his left arm.
He appears clearly as the great master who ‘prevails over all that appears and exists’.
From his three centres, marked with the three vajra syllables,
Light radiates out, invoking the wisdom deities, who dissolve into him.
Hūṃ hrīḥ. From the palace of natural purity,
Come now, guru of the unborn dharmakāya!
From the palace of all-pervading perfect clarity,
Come now, guru of the unceasing saṃbhogakāya!
From the palace of rigpa's power, that tames living beings,
Come now, guru of the non-abiding nirmāṇakāya!
From the palace of the three kāyas indivisible,
Come now, vajra guru, I pray!
Inspire me—this practitioner—with your blessings!
vajra samājaḥ | jaḥ hūṃ baṃ hoḥ
Oṃ āḥ hūṃ. To the guru, the pure display of my perception,
Without clinging to characteristics, I prostrate.
The dharmakāya offering of purity and equality, I offer.
All negative actions and obscurations, within the unborn expanse, I confess.
In the virtue of non-action, I rejoice.
Turn the wheel of the indestructible Dharma beyond expression, I implore you.
Take your place on the immutable, everlasting throne.
Within the immaculate great dharmadhātu, I dedicate.
May the level of the three kāyas swiftly be attained!
Oṃ āḥ hūṃ. Together with all beings, infinite in number,
I offer my bodies, possessions and sources of merit,
As outer, inner and secret maṇḍalas,
To the guru, buddhas and their bodhisattva heirs.
oṃ guru sarva tathāgata ratna maṇḍala pūja hoḥ
Outwardly, you are the bodhisattva lord Chökyi Lodrö,
Inwardly, you are Mañjuśrī and Vimalamitra,
Secretly, you are the Glorious Heruka with perfect attributes,
I pray to you: bless my mind, inspire my understanding!
oṃ āḥ hūṃ guru śrī padma heruka sarva siddhi phala hūṃ
From the syllables at the guru's three centres,
Rays of white, red and blue light stream out,
As they dissolve into my own three centres,
I receive empowerments, blessings and siddhis.
The lama dissolves into light and melts into me;
Unaltered, free from clinging, I remain.