The Sound of the Divine Drum Counsel at a Time of Victory
Ever-youthful and glorious Mañjuśrī,
Embodiment of all the victorious buddhas’ wisdom,
Remain forever upon the eight-petalled lotus in my heart,
And make whatever I say a source of healing for all beings!
Simply to hear the words of the essence of clear light,
The most profound of paths, is to undermine saṃsāric existence,
While meditation on its key points brings liberation in a mere six months—
So, let this alone penetrate into the glorious knot of your heart.
For fortunate ones to encounter this teaching
Is a sign of having gathered merit over many aeons in the past,
And provides an opportunity equal to that of Samantabhadra—
So rejoice, my dear heart-friends!
To bring relief to beings throughout saṃsāra’s terrible realms
By leading them to a state of lasting happiness,
Take on the task of helping others in thought and deed,
And avoid self-cherishing as if it were food laced with poison!
It is this that closes the door to the lower realms below,
That leads to the blissful splendour of the higher realms above,
And that ultimately brings us to the dry land of liberation—
Without undue thought then, put this into practice!
Towards all the luxuries and enjoyments of saṃsāra,
Let your desires and aspirations subside in relaxation,
And prize pure dharma discipline as the supreme adornment,
The greatest source of reverence for gods and other beings alike.
From this derives all the joys and splendours
Of the higher realms and definitive goodness;
While transgressions mean wandering endlessly in the lower realms,
So do not deceive yourself, but adopt and avoid actions in the proper way!
Always be in harmony with friends in attitude and deeds,
And exert yourself in cultivating sincerity and pure motivation;
Even if you seek your own best interest in the long term,
The method is still to benefit others—this is the instruction.
This advice encapsulates the essence of the rules of pure human conduct,
The skilful methods of the buddhas of past, present and future,
And the four means of attracting others,
So, my disciples, never ever forget this!
Through the virtue of pronouncing this advice,
May all beings be freed from saṃsāra’s abyss,
May fortunate disciples be sustained with joy
And reborn in the blissful pure land to the west!