A Drop of Jewels A Guru Yoga for Lord Gampopa
In the center is the Great Physician of Dakpo,
The matchless great Gampopa,
The eminent bhikṣu Sönam Rinchen,
The vajra-holder Dzamling Drak.
He has a rosy white complexion and effuses majesty.
He has a cheerful expression and is elderly.
He is ablaze with a hundred experiences of undefiled samādhi.
He wears the attire of a renunciate and a meditation hat.
With his hands in the mudrā of equipoise, he holds an alms-bowl
Brimful of grains, foods, and jewels.
His delightful form – appearing emptiness – is vividly present,
Adorned with the marks and signs, displaying a peaceful smile.
His voice – audible emptiness – rings out the sounds of Dharma,
The ceaseless flow of melodious vajra speech.
His wisdom heart – aware emptiness – vivid and awake,
Is the expansive non-duality of appearance and mind.
By seeing his form, all mundane appearances are brought to a halt.
By hearing his voice, all confused experience is cast aside.
By thinking of him, blissful wisdom dawns within.
He is surrounded by rainbows, rays, and bindus of five-coloured light.
In the east is the glorious Düsüm Khyenpa,
Who knows all three times without attachment or hindrance.
In the south is Dorjé Gyalpo of Kham,
Fulfiller of the Thus-Gone One’s deeds.
In the west is Barom Darma Wang,
Unequalled throughout the three realms.
In the north is Gyalwa Shang Tsalpa,
His feats of accomplishment surpassing thought.
To his right is Wön-gom Tsültrim Nying,
To his left Gompa Sher Gyalwa.
Surrounding them, in the cardinal and intermediate directions,
Are his heart disciples: the four close disciples,
The four disciples of perfect service,
Shagom Yeshé Dorjé and others,
The entire multitude of his adept students.
Also present are the five hundred of the pure retinue
And the five hundred of the impure retinue.
Some are prostrating, circumambulating, and praying,
Some are performing accumulation and purification practices,
Some are expounding and listening to the Sūtras and Tantras, 1
Some are practicing the generation stage of deity practice,
Some are performing mantra recitation,
Some are training in the six yogas, the path of means,
Some are training in the Great Seal, the path of liberation.
Many of them are in sealed retreat in the mountains.
Some are soaring through the air like birds,
Some are coursing through water like fish,
Some are passing through mountains unhindered,
Some are immersed in the great co-emergence,
Some are displaying an array of emanations,
Some are manifesting untainted higher perceptions.
Above him is Shepa Dorjé 2
With oceans of mahāsiddhas gathered like cloud-banks.
In the middle is Cakrasaṃvara
With host of the deities of the three chakras dense as rain clouds.
Below are the Male and Female Protector and their retinue
With a blizzard of ḍākinīs and Dharma protectors.
oṃ āḥ mahā guru puṇye ratna siddhi hūṃ