How to Recite the Dhāraṇīsūtra of Amitāyus
Gurvaparimitāya!
oṃ svabhāva śuddhāḥ sarvadharmāḥ svabhāva śuddho ‘haṃ
Out of emptiness, instantly,
The whole environment becomes the pureland of Sukhāvatī.
Upon a lotus and moon-disc seat,
From the syllable hrīḥ I appear as Amitāyus,
Red in colour, with one face and two hands.
Resting in meditative equipoise, he holds the long-life vase.
He is adorned with silks and jewelled ornaments and
Seated in the cross-legged vajra posture.
His three places are marked by the syllables oṃ, āḥ and hūṃ.
In his heart upon a moon disc is the red syllable hrīḥ
Surrounded by the dhāraṇī-mantra-mālā.
From it spontaneously resounding mantra-mālās stream forth
To purify the veils of my own and others’ karma and afflictions.
The clear elixir of the vitality of saṃsāra and nirvāṇa
Dissolves into the mantra-mālā in his heart and
The vase of longevity in his hands.
A stream of deathless wisdom amṛta
Falls upon me and others, completely filling our bodies
And causing our lifespan, merit and wisdom to increase.
O Bhagavat, please grant me and all other sentient beings the siddhi of deathless life and wisdom!
The lotus and moon-disc seat transform into light which dissolves into me.
And I imagine that my three places are marked by oṃ, āḥ and hūṃ.
Through this merit may I and all sentient beings
Enjoy, in this very lifetime, longevity and good health, and may we never be separated from the Dharma.
In the next life, may we take birth within the pureland of Sukhāvatī,
And may we swiftly attain the level of the protector Amitāyus.
Through the strength of generosity, the Buddha is perfectly sublime.
A lion among men, he has realized generosity’s strength.
When entering the citadel of the compassionate ones,
May my life-span further increase, so that I can perfect generosity.
Through the strength of discipline, the Buddha is perfectly sublime,
A lion among men, he has realized discipline’s strength.
When entering the citadel of the compassionate ones,
May my life-span further increase, so that I can perfect discipline.
Through the strength of patience, the Buddha is perfectly sublime,
A lion among men, he has realized patience’s strength.
When entering the citadel of the compassionate ones,
May my life-span further increase, so that I can perfect patience.
Through the strength of diligence, the Buddha is perfectly sublime,
A lion among men, he has realized diligence’s strength.
When entering the citadel of the compassionate ones,
May my life-span further increase, so that I can perfect diligence.
Through the strength of meditation, the Buddha is perfectly sublime,
A lion among men, he has realized meditation’s strength.
When entering the citadel of the compassionate ones,
May my life-span further increase, so that I can perfect meditation.
Through the strength of wisdom, the Buddha is perfectly sublime,
A lion among men, he has realized wisdom’s strength.
When entering the citadel of the compassionate ones,
May my life-span further increase, so that I can perfect wisdom.