An Envoy for Swiftly Invoking the Blessings of Definitive Meaning Calling the Great Omniscient Jonangpa from Afar
Noble guru, inseparable from the original buddha, glorious Kālacakra, supremely immutable great bliss in the form of the wisdom mudrā, with a mind of emptiness endowed with the supreme of all aspects, and speech of the twelve aspects of true reality, the profound intonement of the definitive meaning in the form of vowels and consonants, resounding throughout all the realms of the ten directions; your unchanging form ornamented with the sublime marks and signs of purity, a great mudrā, shedding the light of a thousand vajra suns everywhere throughout the three worlds, as infinite and boundless as space, the life-force of all the animate and inanimate, extremely subtle and profound, difficult to fathom, pure and stainless, the great embodiment of supreme bliss, united with the great consort of wisdom-emptiness beyond features, with whose form all the tathāgatas who fill the whole of space, intoxicated with great passion, seek perfect union, proclaiming the great sound of "Haṃ!" in the play of the four immaculate joys, and through the process of melting, you emanate and reabsorb peaceful and wrathful sugatas, passionate and passionless, buddhas and bodhisattvas, vidyādharas, vīras and ḍākinīs, as numerous as the infinite atoms in the vast trichiliocosm—great universal splendour, mighty lord, source of all the buddhas of the three times, Omniscient Lord of Dharma Dolpo Sherab Gyaltsen Palzangpo, at your feet I bow down in perpetual homage.
To you I make offerings.
In you I take refuge.
In all my births and lives to come, hold me with compassion, I pray.
Do not allow me or any other sentient being to succumb to negative actions and lead us out of saṃsāra’s mire, I pray.
Purify the extreme of nirvāṇa and quiescence, I pray.
Bless me, I pray, so I may perfect the amassing of discipline, samādhi and wisdom.
Bless me, so I may develop renunciation, bodhicitta and the authentic view,
And accomplish in this very lifetime the six-branch yoga that is the ultimate profound path of the glorious vajra yoga.
Bless me, so I may realize delusion as empty-of-other!
All-knowing, perfect buddha, remain forever in the centre of my heart and cause the light of vajra wisdom to shine.
Bless me, so that a hundred gateways to mnemonic retention ( dhāraṇī ), courageous eloquence, and meditative absorption may be unlocked.
Watch over me! Watch over me! O guru, may you watch over me!