The Truthful Words of a Sage An Aspiration Prayer from the Exceedingly Secret, Enlightened Heart-Essence of the Ḍākinī
Emaho!
Dharmakāya Vajradhara, Saṃbhogakāya Vajrasattva,
Nirmāṇakāya Stainless Sage Loktripāla, 1
Garab Dorjé, Śrī Siṃha, Padmākara, Vimalamitra,
The embodiment of all— root Guru Tötrengtsel
The deities of the three roots and the assemblies of sages and vidyādharas ,
Remain here as witness to the accomplishment of my truthful words.
Since the dawn of delusion until this moment in time,
We have taken countless births in this [conditioned] existence.
Yet, as we have not seized the mind of emptiness-bodhicitta,
We are fettered by the tight shackles of attachment and aversion and
Are still enveloped by the darkness of non-recognition.
But by the timely ripening of the guru’s kind aspirations,
We have met the exceedingly secret indestructible path.
May we be freed from the restraints of attachment and aversion this very instant.
Connected by the karma of innumerable lives,
Companions who enjoy great bliss on the path of skillful means,
Mothers and fathers who nurture us with love and kindness,
Vajra siblings who are connected by sharing tantric commitments,
Essentially, all sentient beings pervading space—
May we invigorate ourselves through the four [thoughts] that turn the mind [toward practice],
Develop diligence that is single-pointedly focused on the excellent teachings,
And perfect the qualities of the three trainings!
May the ripening blessings and four empowerments of
Mahā, Anu, and Ati yoga mature our mind-streams.
May we perfect the supreme paths of the creation and perfection stages,
And uphold the vajra commitments without any degeneration.
May we perfect the maṇḍala of the victors within our own bodies of great bliss—
Train the channels, control the energy, and make the essences pliable,
Inseparably merging energy and mind through
Uniting with the consort who bestows the primordial wisdom of the four joys.
May we seize the royal seat of the dharmakāya, the unshifting view,
Meditate without hope, fear, distraction, and delusion, and
Conduct ourselves free of rejection and acceptance—
Resulting in the power of suchness completely cutting through to the ground.
May we perfect the fundamental points concerning luminosity on the path of Ati,
[The meditational stages of] fluctuation, attainment, habituation, stability, and completion
Upon the supreme path of the four lamps of leaping-over ;
May we awaken to the great exhaustion of phenomena devoid of conceptualization.
May all connected sentient beings who have not embarked on the path
Awaken on the greatly glorious and blissful Mount Potala
Through the power of this caring and fervent aspiration prayer
And my accumulated virtuous actions of the three times.
May the vajra masters and vajra companions in all my lifetimes
Who are connected by the four joys of the profound path
And the siblings and knowledge holders who share tantric commitments
Never part but be established in the same maṇḍala.
May the innumerable billions of emanations
Who benefit sentient beings through various means
Skillfully teach the doctrine in their respective languages,
Dredging the depths of the ocean of cyclic existence.
May the children of the father and mother— method and wisdom
Ultimately perfect the practice of the great saṃbhogakāya.
May they be liberated as a single maṇḍala
In the Akaniṣṭha space of phenomena, the expanse of the youthful vase body.
May this aspirational prayer of truthful words be accomplished without obstruction,
And the exceedingly secret teachings never wane but flourish far and wide
Due to naturally pristine suchness and
The infallible power of the causes and results of [conditioned] phenomena.
May this teaching like the maṇḍala of the sun and moon
Be renowned throughout every region,
Cause the light of intelligence to fully expand, and
The teachings of the buddhas to flourish and spread.
May the teachings of the three vajras flourish and spread:
The vajra body of the natural, unchanging essence,
The vajra speech of the unimpeded, natural enlightened expressions,
The vajra mind of the rainbow body, the middle way devoid of elaborations.