Drop of Wisdom Nectar: A Guru Yoga
Namo guru jñānakāyāya!
Until I and all other beings attain awakening
I take refuge in the Three Jewels.
In order to attain enlightenment for others’ sake
I generate the intention to accomplish the guru!
Ah. In the space before me
Upon a lion throne, lotus and moon,
Is the Mañjughoṣa guru, the dharma sovereign
Lodrö Gyatso, with a pinkish glow.
His two hands, in the mudrā of finding rest,
Hold lotus stems, upon which to the right and left
Are a sword and book and vajra and bell.
His two eyes gaze smilingly.
His two legs are crossed in vajra posture.
He is dressed elegantly in dharma robes
And wears a paṇḍita hat symbolizing the three scriptural collections. 1
He is the actual embodiment of the Three Roots,
And his body of light, the union of appearance and emptiness,
Blazes with the resplendence of the signs and marks.
From the three vajra-syllables at his three centres
Light radiates out and invites the wisdom deities, who then dissolve,
And he blazes with blessings and majestic presence.
Before the guru, who is the embodiment of all source of refuge,
I prostrate with devotion and make offerings, confess my misdeeds and downfalls,
Rejoice in virtue, request the turning of the Dharma Wheel,
Beg you to remain for a hundred aeons, and dedicate virtue to beings.
To Lodrö Gyatso, who is inseparable from Khyentse Wangpo,
Mañjughoṣa in person, the supreme crown ornament
Of all the learned and accomplished of the Land of Snows,
The wisdom embodiment of all victorious ones throughout space, I pray.
oṃ āḥ guru mañjughoṣa mati-sāgara sarva-siddhi hūṃ
Precious treasury of wisdom, embodiment of all sources of refuge,
Consider me with loving compassion from imperceptible space.
Fill my mindstream with supreme wisdom
And grant me supreme empowerments and blessings.
From the three vajra syllables at the guru’s three centres
Rays of white, red and blue light pour out together with a stream of nectar,
Images of enlightened form, mantra garlands and hand implements.
Gradually and all at once they dissolve into my own three centres
And I receive all the empowerments, blessings and attainments.
At the end, the guru in his great contentment
Melts into light and dissolves into me,
So that my three doors merge indivisibly with the guru.
I settle in the natural condition, unborn and uncontrived,
The state of primordial rest, and as I sustain this realization,
The original dharmakāya is made manifest
And the potential of the awareness-emptiness guru is perfected.
Through this virtue, may I and all other sentient beings
Persist in the path of the guru, and through its power
May all be auspicious for us to actualize the fruition
Of the three kāyas and complete our own and others’ aims.
Throughout all our lives, may we follow the supreme glorious guru
In the proper way through the three means of bringing delight,
Be guided by the profound secret nectar of the Dharma
And attain ever greater qualities on the paths and stages!