The Blissful Path of Action Tantra A Ritual for Taking the One-Day Vows of a Lay Practitioner Refuge Taking the Vows The Visualization The Invitation Offerings Taking the Bodhisattva Vows
The mind of the Noble One is the Buddha,
His speech, the sacred Dharma, and his body, the saṅgha—
I take refuge in you; for the sake of sentient beings
I shall meditate on the four immeasurables and become just like you.
May all sentient beings enjoy happiness, and the causes of happiness,
Be free from suffering, and the causes of suffering,
May they never be separated from the great happiness devoid of suffering,
And may they dwell in the great equanimity that is free from attachment and aversion.
Noble Buddha, turn your attention towards me!
From now on, on the eighth and full and new moon days, 2
I shall abandon killing, stealing, sexual misconduct,
Lying, intoxicants; singing, dancing and wearing jewellery;
Sitting on high seats and eating after midday—
These eight branches I shall maintain.
May the enemies of destructive emotions be destroyed!
oṃ svabhāva śuddhāḥ sarvadharmāḥ svabhāva śuddho ‘haṃ
From the state of emptiness appears the pure realm of Mount Potala.
Within a circle of light, upon lotus and moon-disk seats,
Is hrīḥ , which transforms into the Noble Lord of the World, 3
Brilliant white in colour and standing in the posture of equanimity,
With his right hand in the gesture of supreme generosity and his left holding a white lotus.
His hair is tied up in a top-knot adorned with a jewel,
His breast covered with a blackbuck 4 skin.
His lower garment, from Vārāṇasī, 5 is bound at his left hip.
Expressing the nine peaceful demeanours, he is adorned with earrings and bodily jewellery. 6
The bodhisattva’s rays of light shine everywhere.
He is surrounded by buddhas, bodhisattvas, vidyādharas and sages, 7
All appearing clearly with light radiating from the seed syllables at their three places
To invoke the wisdom beings, similar in appearance, who then dissolve into the visualized forms.
You are the protector of all beings without exception,
The terrifying, divine destroyer of Māra’s armies,
And you know all things exactly as they are—
Blessed One, together with your retinue, please come here!
All you buddhas, wherever you abide,
Whether in the past or in the future—
I will train and follow in your footsteps.
May I carry out awakened actions.
Perfecting the six pāramitās,
May I liberate the six classes of beings!