The Excellent Bilva Tree of Auspiciousness Praise and Prayer to Terchen Chokgyur Lingpa
Namo guru padmākarāya!
In the space of dharmadhātu, perfect ground beyond all transition and change,
The spontaneous saṃbhogakāya clusters of five-coloured light shine out,
And their rays of compassion, taming as necessary, are beyond imagining—
Terchen Lama, embodiment of the three kāyas, you reign supreme.
Padmasambhava, supreme of all the splendorous,
And the glorious original buddha Universal Holder,
Splendidly radiating and absorbing infinite maṇḍalas—
O glorious guru, at your feet I pray.
Fragrant with the discipline of non-emission and fourfold joy,
You possess a wisdom mind replete with altruistic bodhicitta,
And environment and beings dawn as the essence of the three maṇḍalas—
Sovereign of vajra holders, to you I pray.
Myriad rivers of instruction from the works of kama and terma,
Merged within the glorious arrangement of your wisdom mind,
And you sounded the summer drums of learning, dignity and nobility— 1
Insightful provider of joy, to you I pray.
Disciplined, impervious to instability of your secret body, speech or mind,
Your beneficent activity extends even unto the far reaches of space,
And your qualities of knowledge, love and power defy the imagination—
Great treasure-revealing guru, at your feet I pray.
With the seven uncommon, most precious transmissions, 2
You unlocked a profound secret treasury without precedent,
A great torch to illuminate the sublime teachings of Padma—
Damdzin, King of Dharma, to you I pray.
Your activity of fourfold liberation is as vast as space itself:
For as long as beings remain here within this world,
You continue to display your various emanations—
Magnificent benefactor of teachings and beings, to you I pray.
Within the pure realm of Lotus-Covered in particular,
You took the form of the bodhisattva Padme Nyugu ('Budding Lotus'),
Accompanied by hosts of bodhisattva heirs to the victorious ones,
And there proclaim the Dharma of the Great Vehicle—to you I pray.
I present clouds of offering, confess all my misdeeds and downfalls,
Rejoice in virtue, and beseech you to turn the Wheel of Dharma.
Do not pass into nirvāṇa, but remain forever among us, I implore you.
Every accumulated virtue without exception I dedicate to all beings.
Throughout all my lives, in all my future rebirths,
May I never be apart from the supreme Terchen Lama.
May I maintain pure vows and perfect the two stages,
And swiftly attain powerful mastery of the guru's four kāyas.
May the teachings of Chokling Tersar spread throughout the world,
And the jewel of billionfold dual attainment sparkle with brilliance,
So that auspiciousness pervades the whole of space and time,
And signs of positivity in existence and peace spiral rightwards.