Dispelling the Anguish of Existence and Quiescence A Prayer of Calling the Guru from Afar
Weh! Weh! O guru, care for me!
Watch over me! Care for me, O guru! Care for me!
Essence and embodiment of all the buddhas,
Source of the precious and sacred Dharma,
Sovereign of the noble saṅgha community,
My very own root guru, care for me!
Basis for the emergence of the root and lineage gurus,
Universal embodiment of the peaceful and wrathful yidams,
Treasury of the ḍākinīs and dharma guardians,
O gracious guru, care for me!
Look upon me, a wrongdoer, with compassion!
Lift me with your hands of loving kindness
From this sea of misery and misfortune
And deliver me to the dry land of liberation.
Kyema! Beings like me with negative karma
Obtain but squander the freedoms and advantages.
Failing to remember death, we become absorbed in the affairs of this life.
Every day we carry out misdeeds of body, speech and mind,
While our virtuous actions resemble droplets on a tip of hair.
Lacking mindfulness and vigilance, we act as if crazy.
Casting caution aside, we are reckless and distracted.
The sun of our lives has passed beyond the western peaks.
Whether we were born into a home with affluent parents
Or to an impoverished family lacking wealth,
Whether we were cherished or neglected, no matter what the case,
We did not turn our attention within but slipped into bad habits
And entered the muddy waters of unwholesome ways.
The thought of practising the sacred Dharma never occurred to us,
With our rock-like minds that never contemplate the coming of death.
All our days and nights have been spent in idle merriment,
Or we have passed the time in pain and distress—
As if in seeking happiness we bought only misery instead—kyemahü!
The radiance of youth and beauty quickly fades,
And we are caught between the jaws of Yama, lord of death,
Our only fortune is that they have not yet clamped shut.
When the dark demon that we call “death” approaches
And throws its noose around us,
There’ll be no way to cajole it through glib talk or flattery.
Nor will we be able to bribe it with great riches and resources.
And the force of our power and influence will not avert it.
Well may we beat our chests and weep, 1
For this is the time when we must leave behind
Our companions, family, home, wealth and possessions.
And our only burden, which we must carry into the bardos,
Will be the mountainous accumulation of our own misdeeds.
We may have accrued a modicum of virtue,
And we may seek the solace of merit at that time,
But unless we gather it now we’ll have nothing to take with us.
In the bardo we’ll face horrors and torments beyond measure.
Should we fall into the lower realms our misery will be unbearable.
If now we cannot bear even so much as the pain from a spark of flame
Or a single day’s cold and hunger, how will we possibly cope? 2
Let us consider well this intense, enduring and intolerable suffering,
And put the Dharma into practice from the depths of our hearts.
Inspire us with your blessings, so that we may devote body, speech and mind to virtue.
Kyema kyihü! O vidyādhara Padmākara!
Turn my mind towards the Dharma! O guru, care for me.
I may have found the freedoms and advantages this time,
But to acquire them again in future will be almost impossible.
Even if I were to gain a human form in a border region
Of barbarians who lack the Dharma it would be to no avail.
So I pray never to take birth in such a place.
Even to be reborn among the devas is of little use,
As once the tainted fruit of happiness is exhausted we must fall into the lower realms.
Therefore, this precious human form, which is so difficult to obtain,
Cannot be compared even to gaining a hundred or a thousand jewels.
To acquire it and then act only negatively would be utter folly,
Akin to throwing a jewel into a cesspit.
Kyema kyihü! O vidyādhara Padmākara!
Turn my mind towards the Dharma! O guru, care for me.
Used well, this body is a ferry to liberation.
Used poorly, it is an anchor in saṃsāra.
Now is the crucial juncture for going up or down,
Like the moment of steering a horse by its reins.
O Guru, care for me: help me to turn away from misconduct!
Attachment to desires is a cause of ruin and destruction,
It’s hard to gather and increase possessions when caught in the knot of avarice
And lacking the fruits of past generosity, but if we have a store of merit from the past,
Like honey collected by bees, wealth will come to us with ease.
O guru, care for me: help me to make generous offerings and gifts!
Remaining a householder is the basis of all faults
And devoting day and night to attachment and aversion.
However much we might strive to overcome rivals, protect friends or work the land,
There will never be an end to it, and our tasks will only continue to increase,
As we are tormented by the failure to accomplish our aims.
O guru, care for me, so that I’m not required to purchase my own misery!
The regions of saṃsāra are like a pit of flames,
An island of cannibals, the blade of a sword,
Or a draught of poison—as I recall these faults,
O guru, care for me, so that I develop the wish to escape conditioned existence!
That which can afford protect against all the miseries
Of saṃsāra and the lower realms is the guru and Three Jewels.
No one else can guard us in this way.
O guru, care for me, so that with vivid, eager and confident faith
And intense devotion, I may recognise the essence of the threefold refuge!
There’s not a single being who hasn’t been my mother or father.
Yet now in my delusion I discriminate between my own and others’ sides,
And am bound by the fetters of attachment and aversion.
O guru, care for me, so that I may recognise the root of my self-clinging
And realize the natural state beyond self!
O guru, care for me, so that in the knowledge that all beings have been my parents in the past,
I may be able to train my mind repeatedly
In loving kindness, compassion and the supreme mind of bodhicitta,
With the noble intention to repay their kindness and help them all.
Unless I gather the two accumulations and purify obscurations,
I will never attain the level of the four kāyas.
So let me abandon the cause for rebirth as a preta or hungry ghost,
And make an effort to accumulate vast stores of merit.
In addition, let me gather vast stores of wisdom,
By resting my mind in insight—beyond the three conceptual spheres—
Into the illusoriness of all phenomena and their lack of inherent nature,
Untainted by any clinging to reality or apprehension of true existence.
And let me dedicate all the virtue that this represents to all beings
Throughout the whole of space, by emulating the hero Mañjuśrī,
Without any expectation of gaining a result or anything in return,
And with the total purity of the three conceptual spheres—
O guru, care for me: enable me to accomplish this!
Misdeeds and obscurations accumulated throughout beginningless time
Veil the true face of my own buddha nature ( sugatagarbha ),
So I confess with all four powers my nonvirtuous actions
Prompted by the three poisons that ignorance creates.
Since there can be no purification without regret and resolve,
I confess with sincere, heartfelt repentance and remorse.
Even a tiny fault that is not openly admitted
May set my mind aflame, like a bundle of hay,
And cast me into saṃsāra—O guru, care for me,
So that I may confess and purify my misdeeds and obscurations.
If I do not realize the natural state of my own mind,
I will never attain great awakening
Through cultivating clever talk or ideas.
When we investigate the mind at its root,
We find that how we perceive is but mind’s creation.
Saṃsāra and nirvāṇa, hope and fear—they are postures of mind.
And when we investigate mind as such, it is without basis or origin.
Apparent yet nonexistent, this expression of emptiness,
Which the childish take to be real,
Is like the appearance of floating hairs in space—
Even as it appears it is empty of its own essence.
Thus the mind itself has always been empty, primordially pure.
It is not existent, for even the buddhas have not seen it.
It is not nonexistent, for it’s the basis of saṃsāra and nirvāṇa.
Yet it is not established as something real or discernible,
But is beyond limits and extent, as in the example of space.
Empty in essence, its nature is luminous clarity,
And its resonance, awareness, pervades all of saṃsāra and nirvāṇa.
The expression of awareness may manifest either purely or impurely.
And although we divide it into three, awareness is really one.
O guru, care for me, so that I may realize the natural state of the ground.
Having recognized this through the guru’s kindness,
May I master the view devoid of conceptual projection,
The key points of meditation—uncontrived, undistracted and free from clinging,
And the conduct through which whatever arises is freed by itself—
O guru, care for me, so that I may understand how these three are indivisible.
Original, spontaneous perfection abides as the three great kāyas.
The Great Middle Way, which is primordially pure, free from dualistic phenomena,
The Great Seal (Mahāmudrā) in which method and wisdom are indivisible,
And the Great Perfection (Dzogpachenpo), the luminosity of awareness and emptiness—
Having fully mastered the direct realization into the nature of these,
May I seize the stronghold of the fruitional awareness of dharmakāya.
O guru, care for me, so that I may empty saṃsāra from its very depths.
Kyema kyihü! O vidyādhara Padmākara!
Turn my mind towards the Dharma! O guru, care for me.
O Guru, care for me, so that I may close the great gates to the lower realms.
O Guru, care for me, so that I may purify my negative karma, misdeeds and obscurations.
O Guru, care for me, so that I may transform adversity into the path to enlightenment.
O Guru, care for me, so that I may experience the equal flavour of happiness and sorrow.
O Guru, care for me, so that I may realize the indivisibility of saṃsāra and nirvāṇa.
O Guru, care for me, so that appearances and mind may be liberated within the ground.
O Guru, care for me, so that I may meet my natural face, the three kāyas.
O Guru, care for me, so that I may attain the rainbow body dharmakāya.
Care for me, care for me, O noble guru, care for me!
I have no other hope but you. Embrace me in your compassion.