A Shower of Blessings A Sādhana of Blue-Green Tārā Taking Refuge Generating Bodhicitta Accumulation of the Seven Branches Blessing the Offerings Main Part: Deity Yoga Feast Offering Remainder Offering
Nama ārya tārāyai!
Until awakening, I, along with all other beings
Throughout the very reaches of space,
Turn for refuge to Noble Tārā, the Mother of all Buddhas,
As well as to the myriad Buddhas and Bodhisattvas.
I’ll now meditate upon the Buddha, the most noble Tārā,
And practice the recitation of her mantra,
So as to free each and every parent sentient being
From the fears of both saṃsāra and nirvāṇa.
I offer prostrations to Ārya Tārā with great devotion,
Proffer cloudbanks of offerings, confess all downfalls and misdeeds;
I rejoice in all virtue, request the wheel of dharma be turned
And that the buddhas remain – passing not into nirvāṇa –
And dedicate all merit to the awakening of all.
Samantabhadra's clouds of offerings fill appearance and existence;
They are blessed through the wisdom of immaculate great bliss
As an offering display,
And thereby become an inexhaustible treasure.
oṃ mahāsukha jñāna pūja samaya khaṃ
From within emptiness all appears as a pure realm,
Within which is an inestimable mansion perfect in every way.
At its centre is a lotus seat,
Upon which is set a full moon cushion.
The syllable Tāṃ appears upon it and instantly transforms into a radiant blue-green utpala flower.
It radiates light, which perfectly fulfils both my own and others’ purpose.
Returning, it transforms the flower, and I arise as the venerable blessed lady,
Noble Tārā, blue-green in colour.
I have one face and two hands – my right hand is in the gesture of sublime generosity,
And my left, in the gesture of granting protection,
Holds the stem of an utpala flower,
Which blossoms at the level of my left ear.
Divine silks hang loosely over me,
And I wear heavenly jewellery.
I sit with my right leg extended and left drawn in.
I am surrounded by twenty goddesses,
Who radiate from me like rays from the sun.
All of us, main deity and retinue alike,
Have the youth of a sixteen-year-old girl
And are full of charm and grace; from the three places on our bodies,
Marked with the three syllables of awakened body, speech and mind,
And from the seed-syllable at my heart, radiate inconceivable rays of light:
From myriad buddha-fields,
Especially the pure realm of Rosewood Pleasure Grove,
Come the buddhas and bodhisattvas of the ten directions,
Especially the oceanic deities
Of Ārya Tārā’s maṇḍala: samājaḥ!
They merge indivisibly with the samayasattvas.
Then, light radiates once more from my heart
And invites the deities who perform empowerment.
I supplicate you: pray grant me empowerment!
They pour nectar from their overflowing vases,
Which fills my body completely, purifying all defilement.
The excess water at my crown swirls up
And transforms into the crown ornament of Amitābha.
The precious outer world, vast and capacious,
Is filled with the fivefold offerings of divine substance,
And from the essence of natural bliss and emptiness,
Arises an inexhaustible treasury of offering clouds,
Which I present to delight the deities of the maṇḍala.
oṃ āḥ hūṃ | ārya tāre saparivāra arghaṃ pādyaṃ puṣpe dhūpe āloke gandhe naivedye śabda pratīccha hūṃ svāhā
O Tārā, gods and human beings alike 1
Place the crowns of their heads at your lotus feet;
Mother of all buddhas, who liberates from every distress,
I offer you homage and praise!
Your sublime form is adorned with precious jewels
And sparkles like an emerald mountain or garland of stars.
The mere sight of you captivates the minds of all—
Supreme goddess, holder of the blue lotus, to you I bow.
The blue-green syllable tāṃ upon the moon at my heart
Is surrounded by a mantra garland composed of the ten syllables.
They radiate and retract rays of light, which fulfil my own and others’ aims;
And appearance, sound and awareness become the three vajras.
oṃ tāre tuttāre ture svāhā
Noble Tārā, along with your entourage,
Infinite buddhas, bodhisattvas, deities of the three roots,
And those throughout existence and peace invited as guests,
Please come to the place of this feast offering.
Sublime and noble deity, embodiment of the activity
Of all the buddhas of the three times,
I invite you and your entourage to this feast
And present copious outer, inner and secret offerings.
I confess all my breaches of vows and negative actions accumulated throughout beginningless time –
May the devils and enemies of grasping and grasped at be liberated within the dhātu!
Please enjoy this feast – the highest of offerings –
And awaken all, as one, in the circle of great bliss.
Mahā amṛta pūja hoḥ
oṃ āḥ hūṃ
All you guests entitled to accept these remains,
You who abide by the oath taken in the past
In the presence of the victorious buddhas,
Accept these leftover offerings as a torma of nectar,
And carry out your activity of protecting the teachings!
vajra samaya mahā pūja kha kha khāhī
Āḥ! All appearances, including myself, the deity, dissolve into the dharmadhātu.
And once again, I arise as the rūpakāya, a magical display of great bliss.
I regard all appearances, sound and thought
As the play of Tārā’s three vajras.