Far-Reaching Benefit of Beings, Extensive as the Sky Visualization and Mantra Recitation of the Great Compassionate One 1. Prostration 2. Offering 3. Confession 4. Rejoicing 5. Imploring the Buddhas to Turn the Wheel of Dharma 6. Requesting the Buddhas Not to Enter Nirvāṇa 7. Dedication
In the Buddha, the Dharma and the Supreme Assembly
I take refuge until I attain enlightenment.
Through the merit of practising generosity and so on,
May I attain buddhahood for the benefit of all beings.
For me and all sentient beings throughout the whole of space,
On the crowns of our heads, seated upon white lotus and moon
Is a Hrīḥ, out of which noble Avalokiteśvara appears—
Brilliantly white and radiating five-coloured rays of light.
He has a captivating smile and gazes with eyes of compassion.
The first two of his four hands are clasped together,
The lower two hold a crystal rosary and white lotus.
He is adorned with silken garments and jewels,
And an antelope pelt is draped over his shoulder.
Amitābha, 'Boundless Light', is his crown adornment.
His two legs are in the seated, vajra posture,
And a stainless moon supports him at his back.
He is the essence and embodiment of all sources of refuge.
Precious lord, your body white and unblemished,
Your crown adorned with the perfect buddhas,
Your eyes of compassion gazing on all beings—
Avalokiteśvara, to you I pay homage!
To the noble lord Avalokiteśvara and
And all the victors and their heirs,
Dwelling in all directions of the universe, through past, present and future,
Sincerely and enthusiastically I pay homage!
I make offerings of flowers, incense, lamps, fragrant scents,
And food, and music, and the like —
Both physical and imaginary, created by the mind.
Assembly of Noble Ones, please accept them all!
All my negative deeds throughout beginningless time until today,
The ten non-virtues and the five with immediate reckoning —
Sprung from this mind that is driven by destructive emotions,
I confess them all, each and every one.
With a heart full of delight, I rejoice in all the merits
Of śrāvakas, pratyekabuddhas, bodhisattvas,
And every living being,
Throughout the three times.
I implore you: according to the temperament
And mental capacity of sentient beings,
Please turn the wheel of Dharma
Of all the vehicles — lesser, greater, and general.
Until saṃsāra has been completely emptied,
I beseech you: do not pass into nirvāṇa,
But look upon us with your boundless compassion,
As we flounder in this ocean of suffering.
May whatever virtue I have amassed
Become the cause of enlightenment for all;
May I quickly, without delay or deferment,
Become an excellent guide to all beings.
To you I pray, guru Avalokiteśvara.
To you I pray, yidam Avalokiteśvara.
To you I pray, sublime noble Avalokiteśvara.
To you I pray, lord of refuge Avalokiteśvara.
To you I pray, loving protector Avalokiteśvara.
Hold me in your compassion, caring and victorious one.
For us beings who wander endlessly throughout saṃsāra
And are subjected to intolerable pain and suffering,
Protector, we have no other refuge but you.
Inspire us to attain omniscience and awakening.
Through the force of negative karma, accumulated throughout beginningless time,
Beings who are overcome with hatred take birth in the hells,
Where they suffer the torments of intense heat and cold:
May they all be reborn in your presence, O supreme of deities!
Oṃ maṇi padme hūṃ
Through the force of negative karma, accumulated throughout beginningless time,
Beings who are overcome with miserliness take birth in the preta realm,
Where they suffer the torments of intense hunger and thirst:
May they all be reborn in your supreme Potala pureland!
Oṃ maṇi padme hūṃ
Through the force of negative karma, accumulated throughout beginningless time,
Beings who are overcome with folly take birth as animals,
And experience the misery of verbal incapacity and confusion:
May they all be reborn in your presence, O protector!
Oṃ maṇi padme hūṃ
Through the force of negative karma, accumulated throughout beginningless time,
Beings who are overcome with passionate desire take birth in the human realm,
Where they suffer the torments of intense deprivation:
May they all be reborn in the supreme pureland, Sukhāvatī!
Oṃ maṇi padme hūṃ
Through the force of negative karma, accumulated throughout beginningless time,
Beings who are overcome with jealousy take birth in the asura realm,
Where they suffer the torments of conflict and dispute:
May they all be reborn in the Potala pureland!
Oṃ maṇi padme hūṃ
Through the force of negative karma, accumulated throughout beginningless time,
Beings who are overcome with pride take birth in the deva realm,
Where they suffer the torments of transmigration and fall:
May they all be reborn in the Potala pureland!
Oṃ maṇi padme hūṃ
May I, in this and all my future lives,
Through activity like that of Avalokiteśvara,
Liberate the beings of impure realms,
And transmit the supreme speech of the six syllables throughout the ten directions!
Through the force of invoking you, the supremely noble,
May all those whom I must discipline and guide,
Take interest in cause and effect, strive to act virtuously,
And come to possess the qualities that may benefit all.
Through praying single-pointedly in this way,
Rays of light stream forth from the Noble One's form,
And purify impure karmic perception and delusion.
The outer environment becomes the blissful paradise, Sukhāvatī,
And beings within it transform physically, vocally and mentally
To take on Avalokiteśvara's enlightened body, speech and mind,
And appearance, sound and awareness become inseparable from emptiness.
Oṃ maṇi padme hūṃ
I and others appear as the Noble One's enlightened form.
All sounds take on the melody of the six-syllable mantra,
And all thoughts are the expanse of great primordial wisdom.
Through the positivity and merit of this, may I swiftly
Attain the realization of Avalokiteśvara, and thereby
Every single sentient being
Reach his state of perfection too.
Through the merit of practising this visualization and recitation of mantra,
May I and all those with whom I am connected,
Be reborn miraculously in the blissful paradise of Sukhāvatī
The very moment we leave these impure bodies behind.
And as soon as we are born there may we fully traverse the ten stages,
And send out emanations to act for others' welfare throughout the ten directions.