The Swift Infusion of Blessings Prayer and Aspiration for the Stages of the Path Combined with Guru Yoga
Namo guru!
Mañjughoṣa, who alone embodies the wisdom of all the victorious ones,
Manifested in the form of a spiritual guide for this degenerate age—
The guru Jamyang Khyentse Wangpo,
And Chökyi Lodrö, indivisible in their enlightened form.
Upon a lion throne and seats of white lotus, sun and moon,
They appear as the Vajradhara of Oḍḍiyāna, embodiment of all the Three Roots.
He is bright blue, holds a vajra and bell and embraces the princess,
He is adorned with silks and bone and jewel ornaments,
And sits with his two legs crossed in the vajra posture.
From his three centres, which are marked by the three syllables,
Light radiates out to invite the wisdom deities, who dissolve inseparably.
Vividly and brightly, he appears as the essence of all sources of refuge,
Before whom I prostrate, present offerings, confess misdeeds, rejoice,
Request the Dharma, plead for continued presence and dedicate sources of virtue towards perfect awakening.
Root guru, precious one of Oḍḍiyāna,
With unshakeable, heartfelt devotion, I pray to you:
Hold me with your compassion in this life, the next and the bardo state,
And inspire me with your blessings, so that all my wishes may be fulfilled!
From the three vajra seed-syllables at the guru’s three centres,
Light shines out to confer empowerment, blessings and attainments.
The guru is pleased, melts into light, and dissolves into me.
Wisdom and mind fuse as one, perfecting the great power of realization.
And, in the genuine state, unspoilt by thoughts involving perceiver or perceived,
I settle, undistracted yet not meditating, in the great transcendence of conceptual mind.
Throughout all my lives, may I be cared for inseparably
By the noble guru and receive instructions that mature and liberate.
With utterly pure faith and samaya commitment,
May I follow the guru’s supreme path to the very end.
May I fully develop faith, devotion, disenchantment and renunciation,
As well as loving kindness, compassion and the supreme mind of awakening.
May I purify obscurations, gather the accumulations, draw blessings into my heart,
And eliminate any misconceptions concerning the profound view.
May I purify attachment to appearances as the deity’s form through the generation phase,
Bring wind-energy and mind into the central channel through the profound completion phase,
And bring about enhancement through the activity that inspires realization,
So that the sun of co-emergent wisdom dawns within my heart.
Moreover, through the guru’s profound pith instructions,
May I recognise pure awareness directly and without error,
Decide upon it without becoming entangled in doubt,
And gain the assurance of great natural freedom!
May I master the view of Trekchö through the three ways of leaving things as they are,
And through applying the crucial points of the postures and gazes,
May I fully accomplish the secret path of the four types of lamp,
Arriving at the culmination of the four visions of luminosity.
Yet if I do not attain liberation in this very lifetime,
May I recognise the dharmakāya luminosity at death,
And within the youthful vase body, primordially pure inner luminosity,
May I capture the sovereign stronghold of the fruition.
Should I fail to reach such a state of stable and enduring freedom,
May I recognise the visionary experiences of the bardo of dharmatā.
And if, in my confusion, I wander further into the state of becoming,
May I go on to take rebirth in a natural nirmāṇakāya realm.
If my karmic fortune and habitual propensities are weak,
And I’m not liberated then but move on to another birth,
May I seal the womb door, gain a practitioner’s splendid support,
And go on to encounter the Dharma and meet an excellent guru.
Thereafter, may I directly realize the profound meaning
Of the Natural Great Perfection,
Become inseparable from the primordial protector Samantabhadra
And capable of emptying the three realms of saṃsāra from their very depths.