A Method of Confession Based on the Four Powers Refuge & Bodhicitta Invocation Seven-Branch Practice 1. Power of Support 2. Antidotal Power 3. Power of Repentance 4. Power of Restraint Dedication
I take refuge in the guru and Three Jewels,
And vow to attain awakening for beings’ benefit!
Guru, yidam, three supreme ones and attendants,
I invite you all: take your place in the sky before me!
All those worthy of reverence throughout the universe,
Before you all, with devotion for these fields of qualities,
I and all beings emanate as many bodies as there are atoms,
And respectfully offer continuous prostration everywhere—even in the farthest buddhafield,
We present every form of offering, confess all misdeeds,
Rejoice in virtue, request the turning of the Dharma-wheel,
Implore you not to pass into nirvāṇa,
And dedicate sources of virtue to perfect awakening!
Leader, victorious one, protector of all,
Diligent in the task of guarding beings,
Mighty one who banishes all fears,
From this day on, I take refuge in you,
And in the Dharma that you have realized,
Which banishes all the terrors of saṃsāra,
In the hosts of bodhisattvas too,
Likewise, I take refuge.
In the past, I transgressed your words,
But now that I perceive the dangers,
I take refuge in you:
Swiftly banish all these fears, I pray!
Unequalled guide, king of the Śākyas,
Vajra Essence who Utterly Subdues
And the remainder of the thirty-five buddhas, together with the seven heroic sugatas,
Eight tathāgatas, protectors in this time of degeneration,
Thousand sun-like sages, guides for the Fortunate Aeon,
Dīpaṃkara, lord of sages, protector Maitreya,
And others—buddhas of the three times, together with your heirs,
We pay homage to you, make offerings and sincerely take refuge:
Protect us from the lower realms and threats of existence!
Victorious buddhas of every place and time,
And great compassionate bodhisattva warriors,
Consider me with your loving wisdom minds.
Throughout beginningless time until now,
Overpowered by the three poisons, I have committed the five boundless crimes,
And ten unwholesome actions, plundered the property of the Three Jewels,
And carried out acts that lead to rebirth in fearsome destinies
And inopportune states—both naturally negative deeds
And those that involve an infringement of the rules.
I have committed, requested and rejoiced at such acts.
With regret and remorse, I openly acknowledge all, withholding nothing.
Anxiously, I join my palms together before these great protectors,
Expressing devotion and respect physically, verbally and mentally.
And sincerely and repeatedly, I offer this confession:
In your loving wisdom, forgive these wrongs, I pray!
Supreme remedy in deprivation, most excellent, unfailing refuge,
Bliss-gone buddhas of the three times together with your heirs,
With the utmost devotion, I join my palms together and pledge:
That which leads to the various miseries and all that is unwished for
In the lower realms, evil destinies and eight inopportune states
Is non-virtuous action—downfalls and harmful deeds of body, speech and mind,
So from this moment on, I shall refrain from the slightest non-virtue,
Even at the cost of my own life—this is my commitment!
Through this virtue, throughout all my lives,
By a spiritual friends of the supreme vehicle
Show me the unerring path and guide me inseparably
As I insatiably imbibe the nectar of the teachings.
Through this power, may I perfect the practices
Of renunciation, the mind of awakening,
Authentic view, six perfections and two phases,
Together with all that accompany them.
May all be auspicious so that I spontaneously accomplish twofold benefit
Through the profound path of guru and deity yoga,
The ultimate essence of the whispered pith instructions
In the lineage of the great vajra-holder Tsongkhapa Lobzang Drakpa!