The Chariot Bound for Sukhāvatī, the Blissful Realm A Liturgy for Cultivating Buddha Amitābha’s Pure Realm I. The Preliminaries A. Preparations to Be Made Before Beginning the Ritual B. The Preparatory Rituals 1. Taking Refuge 2. Generating Bodhicitta 3. A Supplementary Consecration of the Place and Articles II. The Main Part A. Visualizing the Field of Accumulation Extending the Invitation Bathing the Buddhas Offering Them a Bath Drying Their Bodies Offering Clothes and Ornaments Requesting Them to Be Seated B. Gathering the Accumulations 1. Offering the Seven Branches a. Paying Homage b. Presenting Offerings 3. Performing the Remaining Branches of Confessing Misdeeds and the Rest Confession Rejoicing Imploring the Buddhas to Turn the Wheel of Dharma Requesting the Buddhas Not to Enter Nirvāṇa Dedication 2. Invoking Their Wisdom Hearts Through Recitation a. Performing the Recitation Activity The Recitation Visualization 3. Training in the Visualizations for Cultivating the Pure Realm C. Making Aspirations III. The Concluding Rituals A. Making Thanksgiving Offerings 1. Prostration 2. Offering 3. Confession 4. Rejoicing 5. Imploring the Buddhas to Turn the Wheel of Dharma 6. Requesting the Buddhas Not to Enter Nirvāṇa 7. Dedication B. The Dissolution Practice C. Dedication, Aspirations, and Prayers for Auspiciousness
This free and well-favoured human form is difficult to obtain.
Now that we have the chance to realise the full human potential,
If we don’t make good use of this opportunity,
How could we possibly expect to have such a chance again?
This existence of ours is as transient as autumn clouds.
To watch the birth and death of beings is like looking at the movement of a dance.
A lifetime is like a flash of lightning in the sky,
Rushing by, like a torrent down a steep mountain.
When his time has come, even a king has to die,
And neither his friends nor his wealth can follow him.
So for us—wherever we stay, wherever we go—
Karma follows us like a shadow.
Because of craving, attachment and ignorance,
Men, gods, animals, hungry ghosts and hell-beings
Foolishly go round,
Like the turning of a potter’s wheel. 2
The three worlds are ablaze with the suffering of old age and sickness;
This world is ablaze with the fire of death and without a protector.
Always deluded in impure existence,
Beings spin like a bee caught in a vase. 3
In order to free all beings, my mothers, countless as space,
From samsaric existence and its fearful suffering,
I turn to the supreme gurus and the Three Precious Jewels.
I turn to them for refuge, with unshakeable faith.
Homage to Guru Amitābha!
The objects of refuge—Guru Boundless Light and billowing cloudbank oceans of the Three Jewels—are vividly present before me. In their presence, with one-pointed intent, I go for refuge with all other beings and arouse awakened heart.
Namo. To the guru and yidam, Amitābha,
And to the Three Jewels and the ocean of victors,
I go, with every being, devotedly, one-pointedly,
For refuge until awakening.
Hoḥ. So that all beings, my own mothers,
May attain the state of enlightenment,
I will harm none, practice virtue, and benefit others,
Thus I will always arouse bodhicitta.
May all sentient beings enjoy happiness!
May they be freed from every kind of suffering!
May they never be apart from happiness!
May they realize the equality of all phenomena!
The objects of refuge dissolve into me.
Through the force of the truth of Buddha, Dharma, and Saṅgha,
Through the blessings of all the buddhas and bodhisattvas,
Through the great power of the completed accumulation of merit and wisdom,
And through the purity of the inconceivable dharmadhātu,
Now this whole environment becomes like the landscape of the Blissful buddhafield, magnificently arrayed with all kinds of exquisite ornaments, captivating and incredible in its beauty.
May the ground be pure everywhere:
Free from gravel and other sharp objects,
Level like the palm of the hand,
Smooth and wrought from beryl.
In this perfect realm, the sacred possessions of gods and men—forms, sounds, fragrances, tastes, textures, and the like—inconceivable ocean-like clouds of offerings, so pure and enchanting, fill the entire expanse of space.
I present collections of offerings beyond these:
Music in sweet, captivating melodies
That alleviates beings’ sufferings—
May clouds of each offering remain.
namo ratna trayāya | namo bhagavate | vajra-sāra-pramardane | tathāgatāyārhate samyak-saṃbhuddhāya | tadyathā | oṃ vajre vajre mahā-vajre | mahā-teja-vajre | mahā-vidyā-vajre | mahābodhicittavajre mahābodhi-maṇḍopasaṃ-kramaṇa-vajre | sarvakarmāvaraṇaviśodhanavajre svāhā
oṃ svabhāva-śuddhāḥ sarva-dharmāḥ svabhāva-śuddho ’ham
From the state of emptiness, the entire land
Becomes the Blissful pure-realm, Sukhāvatī,
An amazing, inconceivable sight.
At its centre, upon a lotus and moon disc,
I am Noble Avalokiteśvara,
Reddish white, radiant, with palms joined together.
He has the form of a youthful bodhisattva,
And sits in bodhisattva posture.
In front, upon a beautiful jewel throne
Held up by peacocks is a lotus and moon disc,
The seat of protector Boundless Light, who is red in colour;
His hands in equipoise hold an alms-bowl of amṛta.
Ablaze with the majestic marks and signs, he wears the Dharma robes.
Cool in the pleasant shade
Of a huge, spreading bodhi tree,
He sits amid infinite, streaming light rays,
In vajra posture.
To his right is noble Avalokiteśvara,
Radiant white with one face and two arms,
His right hand in the gesture of the supreme gift
And his left granting protection, displaying the Three Jewels
While holding the stem of a blooming white lotus.
To his left is mighty Vajrapāṇi,
Dark blue with one face and two arms,
Holding a vajra in his right hand and a bell in his left
In the gesture of granting protection.
In front is a host of noble ones,
And above and below, in all directions,
Are buddhas, bodhisattvas,
And world protectors in inconceivable array.
All of them resound with the Dharma
And relish the amṛta of the supreme vehicle,
All as vivid as if present in person.
Through my wholehearted aspiration and devotion,
And through the mass of wisdom light rays, immeasurable, surpassing thought, that stream forth from Buddha and his retinue before me—from the glorious knots in their heart centres and the treasure-hairs between their eyebrows—
The invitation is extended to Lord Amitābha and to his accompanying host of buddhas, bodhisattvas, śrāvakas, arhats, Dharma protectors, world protectors and their retinues. All are invited from the Blissful pure realm in the West.
Guardians of all beings without exception,
Divine conquerors of the host of demons,
Who know all things, just as they are—
Blessed ones and your retinues, please come to this place!
Enlightened ones, over countless incalculable aeons,
Because of your love for sentient beings, you cultivated compassion.
Your aspirations are vast, your vision all complete,
And if now is the time you intend to benefit beings,
Then from the palace of the dharmadhātu, spontaneously perfect,
Display all kinds of magical emanations and blessings,
And to liberate limitless sentient beings,
Come now, I pray and with you your retinue, in all their utter purity.
oṃ guru sarva tathāgata amitabhā saparivāra ehy ehi
From the Blissful pure realm, just as promised in times gone by,
He appears directly before me, Tathāgata Amitābha, accompanied by a retinue of buddhas and bodhisattvas, a sublime saṅgha of śrāvakas, and a host of Dharma protectors. They arrive on a heavenly path through their miraculous buddha abilities and remain in the sky before me.
Blessed Ones, welcome!
Endowed, as we are, with merit and good fortune,
We beseech you to accept our offerings
And to turn your wisdom hearts in our direction!
To a bath house filled with soothing scents,
With brightly sparkling floors of crystal,
And fine pillars all shimmering with gems,
Where hang gleaming canopies of pearls,
I invite the buddhas and their bodhisattva heirs.
I request you: Come to bathe yourselves in scented water,
Poured from overflowing jugs made of exquisite jewels,
All the while accompanied by melody and song. 6
As soon as the Buddha was born,
The gods bathed him,
We likewise bathe your body
With this water of the gods.
oṃ sarva-tathāgata abhiṣekata samaya śrīye hūṃ
This is the supreme and glorious bathing water,
The water of compassion, unsurpassable.
With this blessed wisdom water,
May we be granted every siddhi we desire!
oṃ sarva-tathāgata abhiṣekata samaya śrīye hūṃ
O victors, though your form, speech, and heart supreme
Are free from afflictions, free from obscurations,
Yet, so that beings might purify their three doors,
We offer you this pure bath of clear water.
oṃ sarva-tathāgata abhiṣekata samaya śrīye hūṃ
Then let me dry you in cloths beyond compare,
Immaculate and anointed well with perfumed scent. 7
oṃ hūṃ traṃ hrīḥ āḥ kāya viśodhane svāhā
And dress you finely in the most excellent of garments,
Lightly scented and dyed in vivid colours.
I offer clothing made of the finest gentle fabrics,
And hundreds of the most beautiful adornments,
To grace the bodies of noble Samantabhadra,
Mañjughoṣa, Lokeśvara and the rest. 8
That I may purify my own mind,
I offer these clothes, so precious and fine,
Multicoloured like a rainbow, blissful to the touch;
May I be adorned with the sublime clothes of patience!
Your stainless marks have no obscurations, nothing to be cleared away,
Yet even so, by offering you with faith this saffron victory banner,
May all beings, infinite as the boundless reaches of space,
Engage in the supreme yogas that bring awakening!
oṃ sarva-tathāgata-vastrālaṃkāra svāhā
For as long as I continue to offer to you,
Blessed One, please remain here,
Caring for me and each and every being
With love and compassion, through your miraculous power!
ratnāsana padma-kamalāya stvam
In the centre of a palace of jewels, in the cool shade of an outstretched bodhi tree, Buddha and his retinue—inseparable from the field of accumulation visualized before me—are seated upon a jewel throne held aloft by peacocks.
In the vivid presence of the field of accumulation before me, I and all other beings, with our three gates as one, send out replicas of our bodies, numerous as all the atoms in the world, and pay homage and engage in worship.
Blessed one, tathāgata, arhat, complete and perfect Buddha Amitābha! To you, untarnished, utterly pure, abiding and present here, to you, teacher of the Dharma, and to your retinue of buddhas and bodhisattvas, sangha of śrāvakas, and host of Dharma protectors, I pay homage! I present offerings! I go to you for refuge!
You are like a fresh, fully opened lotus
Growing in the middle of an enchanting lake.
Joining my palms at my crown, with melodious voice,
And with bodies emanated beyond count, I devotedly prostrate.
To all the buddhas, the lions of the human race,
In all directions of the universe, through past and present and future:
To every single one of you, I bow in homage;
Devotion fills my body, speech and mind.
Through the power of this prayer, aspiring to Good Action,
All the victorious ones appear, vivid here before my mind
And I multiply my body as many times as atoms in the universe,
Each one bowing in prostration to all the buddhas.
In every atom preside as many buddhas as there are atoms,
And around them, all their bodhisattva heirs:
And so I imagine them filling
Completely the entire space of reality.
Saluting them with an endless ocean of praise,
With the sounds of an ocean of different melodies
I sing of the buddhas’ noble qualities,
And praise all those who have gone to perfect bliss.
Incomparable gurus, precious buddhas, your very nature
Is the blessings of the wisdom form, speech, and heart
Of all the sugatas and their heirs, past, present, and future.
O gracious guru buddhas, I bow down at your feet.
To the precious Buddha, the unsurpassable teacher,
To the precious Dharma, the unsurpassable protector,
To the precious Saṅgha, the unsurpassable guide—
To our refuge, the Three Jewels, I pay homage.
You of boundless light, boundless splendour,
Boundless lifespan, boundless saṅgha,
You are surrounded and beautified by bodhisattvas—
Protector Boundless Light, I pay homage to you!
Your light is boundless, as is your infinite mind.
The glow of other lights cannot compare:
Even the sun, the moon, and mountains of gems,
Even the brightest lights of all the world are no match for your radiance.
Beings are infinite in their myriad forms,
And thus Buddha’s speech is infinite too.
No one in the world can match your discipline,
Your samādhi, your knowledge, your diligence.
You attained the Dharma, vast and profound,
The oceanic wisdom heart that is buddha supreme,
And this you teach, yet still you remain without pride.
Anger’s grip relinquished, you lead beings to freedom’s shore.
Blessed one, tathāgata, arhat,
Complete and perfect Buddha
Your lifespan and wisdom are boundless and sure.
Resplendent King, I pay homage at your feet.
Gazing with wise compassion upon all beings in all the ten directions,
You turn the wheels of Dharma throughout the ten directions
And thus grant refuge to all beings throughout the ten directions.
To all buddhas of the ten directions, I pay homage.
To Mañjuśrī, Vajrapāṇi, Avalokiteśvara,
Kṣitigarbha, Nīvaraṇa-viṣkambhin,
Ākāśagarbha, Maitreya, and Samantabhadra—
To the eight great heirs, I pay homage.
Embodying the vast and constant conduct of bodhisattvas,
You fulfill beings’ benefit through the four attracting means.
To all bodhisattvas upon the noble stages
Of Perfect Joy and others, to all of you I pay homage.
To the four pairs of stream-enterers, once-returners,
Non-returners, and foe-destroyers,
To the noble pratekyabuddhas—whether they practice in group or in rhino-like solitude—
To all of you, I pay homage.
With your emanations and your super-knowledges,
You keep a close watch and, following the Sage’s command,
You nurture the treasury of the precious doctrine.
To you, the vajra Dharma protectors, I pay homage.
Through the oceans of virtue gathered through past generosity,
You attained the luxury of long life, of wealth, and power,
And now you rain down jewels upon fortunate practitioners.
To all you yakṣas and wealth protectors, I pay homage.
To all you victors and your heirs, who pervade the whole of space,
Together with all beings, beyond number, filling space,
I emanate replicas of my body, numerous as atoms in the world,
And pay constant homage with venerating mind.
oṃ sarva-tathāgata-kāya-vāk-citta praṇāmena-bhandanaṃ karomi
To every buddha, I make offerings:
Of the loveliest flowers, of beautiful garlands,
Of music and perfumed ointments, the best of parasols,
The brightest lamps and finest incense.
To every buddha, I make offerings:
Exquisite garments and the most fragrant scents,
Powdered incense, heaped as high as Mount Meru,
Arranged in perfect symmetry.
Then the vast and unsurpassable offerings—
Inspired by my devotion to all the buddhas, and
Moved by the power of my faith in Good Actions—
I prostrate and offer to all you victorious ones.
namo ratna trayāya | namo bhagavate vajrasārapramardane tathāgatāyārhate samyaksaṃbhuddhāya | tadyathā | oṃ vajre vajre mahāvajre mahātejavajre mahāyidyāvajre mahābodhicittavajre mahābodhi-maṇḍopasaṃ-kramaṇa-vajre sarvakarmāvaraṇaviśodhanavajre svāhā |
The material offerings arranged here in this place become vibrant oceans of offering clouds defying all measure. These are then offered.
In the presence of the gurus, buddhas, and bodhisattvas,
We present offerings, material and imagined:
Drinking water with the eight qualities, like a rippling lake;
Please accept them and grant the supreme and common siddhis!
oṃ guru-sarva-tathāgatāmitābha-saparivāra arghaṃ pratīccha svāhā
In the presence of the gurus, buddhas, and bodhisattvas,
We present offerings, material and imagined:
Crystal clear bathing water, flowing like the Ganges;
Please accept them and grant the supreme and common siddhis!
oṃ guru-sarva-tathāgatāmitābha-saparivāra pādyaṃ pratīccha svāhā
In the presence of the gurus, buddhas, and bodhisattvas,
We present offerings, material and imagined:
A rain of celestial flowers, filling all the sky;
Please accept them and grant the supreme and common siddhis!
oṃ guru-sarva-tathāgatāmitābha-saparivāra puṣpe pratīccha svāhā
In the presence of the gurus, buddhas, and bodhisattvas,
We present offerings, material and imagined:
Clouds of fragrant incense smoke, pervading all of space;
Please accept them and grant the supreme and common siddhis!
oṃ guru-sarva-tathāgatāmitābha-saparivāra dhūpe pratīccha svāhā
In the presence of the gurus, buddhas, and bodhisattvas,
We present offerings, material and imagined:
Offering lamps that blaze as bright as sun and moon;
Please accept them and grant the supreme and common siddhis!
oṃ guru-sarva-tathāgatāmitābha-saparivāra aloke pratīccha svāhā
In the presence of the gurus, buddhas, and bodhisattvas,
We present offerings, material and imagined:
Nectar-filled water that brings bliss when anointed;
Please accept them and grant the supreme and common siddhis!
oṃ guru-sarva-tathāgatāmitābha-saparivāra gandhe pratīccha svāhā
In the presence of the gurus, buddhas, and bodhisattvas,
We present offerings, material and imagined:
All kinds of foods, rich in taste, nutrients, and energy;
Please accept them and grant the supreme and common siddhis!
oṃ guru-sarva-tathāgatāmitābha-saparivāra naivedye pratīccha svāhā
In the presence of the gurus, buddhas, and bodhisattvas,
We present offerings, material and imagined:
Wondrous music and melodies filling the space of Samantabhadra—
Please accept them and grant the supreme and common siddhis!
oṃ guru-sarva-tathāgatāmitābha-saparivāra śabda pratīccha svāhā
With venerating mind, to the buddhas and their heirs
I offer the most splendid, exquisite forms and sounds,
Smells, tastes, and textures in all of space and time.
Please enjoy them all and grant the highest, supreme siddhi!
oṃ guru-sarva-tathāgatāmitābha-saparivāra pañca-kama-guṇa pratīccha svāhā
From the supreme signs produced by virtue of a hundred merits
The auspicious signs naturally appear.
The eight captivating goddesses hold them up, filling the sky,
offering them to the mandala of victors and their heirs.
oṃ guru-sarva-tathāgatāmitābha-saparivāra aṣṭa-mangala-cihna pratīccha svāhā
The eight supreme substances that bestow virtue and excellence
Appear naturally through the glory of the buddhas’ great merit.
These we offer to the bliss-gone ones and to their heirs;
May there be the auspicious consummation of the twofold benefit.
oṃ guru-sarva-tathāgatāmitābha-saparivāra aṣṭa-mangala-dravya pratīccha svāhā
The distillation of all kingdoms of a universal monarch,
The seven precious substances from billions of pure actions,
These fill to overflowing the ocean of world realms. All of this we offer!
May all wandering beings enjoy the sovereignty of liberation.
oṃ guru-sarva-tathāgatāmitābha-saparivāra sapta-ratna pratīccha svāhā
namaḥ sarva tathāgatebhyo viśvamukhebhyaḥ sarvathā khaṃ udgate spharaṇa imaṃ gagana khaṃ svāhā
Captivating food, expertly prepared with hundreds of delicious flavours,
We faithfully offer to the victorious ones and their heirs.
Through this, may all wandering beings
Enjoy the rich food of samadhi.
Oṃ āḥ hūṃ. On my own and all beings’ behalf,
All our bodies, possessions, and sources of merit,
The four continents, Mount Meru, the sun and the moon,
The unimaginable delights of gods and humans:
Continuously manifesting all of these
As Samantabhadra cloud-banks of offerings,
To the guardian guru Amitābha,
To the deities of the Three Jewels and the three roots,
And to the ocean of Dharma protectors and wealth deities—
I offer always with devotion!
May our great accumulation of merit be perfected
And the light of wisdom illuminate the world!
oṃ guru-sarva-tathāgatāmitābha-saparivāra sarva-ratna-maṇḍala-pūjā-megha āḥ hūṃ
Oṃ āḥ hūṃ. All the riches and splendour, the worlds and beings of the three realms,
My body, possessions, and each and every virtue,
I offer to the lords of compassion—
Accept them all and bestow your blessings, I pray!
oṃ sarva-tathāgata-ratna-maṇḍala-pūjā hoḥ
In order that I might adopt this precious jewel of mind,
I now make the most excellent of offerings to the buddhas,
To the sacred Dharma—that most rare and flawless jewel—
And to the buddhas’ heirs, whose qualities are limitless.
I offer every variety of fruit and flower,
And every kind of healing medicine,
Each and every jewel this world affords,
And all its pure and freshest waters,
Every mountain filled with precious gems,
And forest groves, isolated and inspiring,
Trees of paradise garlanded with blossom,
And trees whose branches are laden with fine fruit,
Perfumed fragrances from the gods and other realms,
Incense, trees that grant wishes and produce magic gems,
Spontaneous harvests grown without the tiller’s care,
And every thing of beauty worthy to be offered,
Lakes and ponds adorned with lotus flowers,
Where the pleasant calls of geese are heard,
Every thing and place of beauty unclaimed by any owner,
Extending to the boundless limits of space itself.
I picture them all in my mind, and to the supreme buddhas
And their bodhisattva heirs, I make a perfect gift of them.
Think of me with love, O sublime and compassionate lords,
And accept all these offerings which I now present.
Lacking stores of merit, I am destitute
And have nothing more to offer.
O protectors, who consider only others’ benefit,
In your great power, accept this for my sake.
To the buddhas and their bodhisattva heirs,
I offer my body now and in all my lives to come.
Supreme courageous ones, accept me totally,
For with devotion I will be your servant.
If you accept me and take me fully in your care,
I will not fear saṃsāra as I offer other beings help.
The harmful acts I did before are entirely in the past,
And from now on, I vow to do no further deeds of harm. 9
With the most sublime of fragrant perfumes,
That gently permeates throughout a billion worlds,
I will anoint the bodies of all the buddhas,
Gleaming brightly, like pure and burnished gold.
To the mighty sages, perfect recipients of my offering,
I will present red lotus and heavenly mandārava ,
Blue utpala flower and other scented blossoms,
Beautifully arranged in brightly coloured garlands.
I also offer billowing clouds of incense,
Whose sweet aroma captivates the mind,
And a rich feast of plentiful food and drink,
Fit to grace the tables of the gods.
I offer row upon row of precious lamps,
All perfectly contrived as golden lotuses,
And I scatter the petals of attractive flowers
Upon level, incense-sprinkled ground.
I offer divine palaces resonant with songs of praise,
Gleaming with precious pearls and pendant gems,
The most beautiful of structures in the whole of space—
All this I offer to those whose nature is compassion.
Jewel-encrusted parasols with handles made of gold,
Whose fringes are all embellished in ornate designs,
Turned upright, well proportioned and pleasing to the eye.
Now and forever, I offer this to all the buddhas.
May a multitude of other offerings,
Accompanied by music sweet to hear,
Be made in great successive clouds,
To soothe the pains of living beings.
May rains of precious gems and flowers
Shower down in never-ending streams,
Upon all the jewels of noble Dharma,
And sacred monuments and images.
Just as Mañjughoṣa and the rest
Made offerings to all the buddhas,
Likewise I too will offer to those thus gone
And all their bodhisattva heirs.
With vast oceans of melodious praise,
I honour these oceans of good qualities.
May clouds of sweet and gentle praise
Ascend unceasingly before them. 10
namaḥ sarva-buddha-bodhisattvebhyaḥ |
oṃ sarvavid pura pura sura sura āvartaya āvartaya svāhā |
Whatever negative acts I have committed,
While driven by desire, hatred and ignorance,
With my body, my speech and also with my mind,
Before you, I confess and purify each and every one.
With a heart full of delight, I rejoice at all the merits
Of buddhas and bodhisattvas,
Pratyekabuddhas, those in training and the arhats beyond training,
And every living being, throughout the entire universe.
You who are like beacons of light shining through the worlds,
Who passed through the stages of enlightenment, to attain buddhahood, freedom from all attachment,
I exhort you: all of you protectors,
Turn the unsurpassable wheel of Dharma.
Joining my palms together, I pray
To you who intend to pass into nirvāṇa,
Remain, for aeons as many as the atoms in this world,
And bring well-being and happiness to all living beings.
What little virtue I have gathered through my homage,
Through offering, confession, and rejoicing,
Through exhortation and prayer—all of it
I dedicate to the enlightenment of all beings!
Blessed, thus-gone, worthy, genuine, perfectly awakened protector Boundless Light, together with all the buddhas and bodhisattvas in all the ten directions, please pay heed to me!
In the Buddha, the Dharma, and the Supreme Assembly,
I take refuge until awakening.
Through the merit of practicing generosity and so forth,
May I attain buddhahood for the benefit of beings.
I will free all beings from aging and death!
Developing generosity, a tame mind, discipline, patience, diligence,
Concentration, samādhi, and likewise supreme knowledge—
All of these yogic disciplines I will authentically adopt!
I will protect beings and awaken them!
I will strive for the pure realm of awakening, matchless and supreme!
To all the billions of buddhas in all their multitudes,
Infinite as the grains of the river Ganges’ sand,
To all these protectors I will make offerings!
I will strive with a diligence every bit as strong as
The blinding light that beams forth
From the infinite pure realms, more numerous still
Than all world systems, equal in number to the Ganges’ sand.
I will adorn the pure realm, supreme, sublime,
With these ornaments gathered here in the conditioned realm,
And, since it lacks true existence, I will cultivate it—
The matchless state of nirvāṇa, the space of perfect bliss.
When it is time for me to die,
Let all that obscures me fade away, so
I look on Amitābha, there in person,
And go at once to his pure land of Sukhāvatī.
In that pure land, may I actualize every single one
Of all these aspirations!
May I fulfil them, each and every one,
And bring help to beings for as long as the universe remains!
Born there in a beautiful lotus flower,
In that excellent and joyous buddha realm,
May the Buddha Amitābha himself
Grant me the prophecy foretelling my enlightenment!
Having received the prophecy there,
With my billions of emanations,
Sent out through the power of my mind,
May I bring enormous benefit to sentient beings, in all the ten directions!
Today, my birth has been fruitful
I have well obtained a human existence.
Today I am born into the family of the buddhas:
I have become a son or daughter of the buddhas.
From now on, at all costs, I will perform
The actions befitting to my family.
I will not be a stain
On this faultless noble family. 11
Today, in the presence of all the protectors,
I invite all beings to the state of sugata,
And, meanwhile, to happiness and bliss:
Gods, asuras and others—rejoice! 12
O sublime and precious bodhicitta,
May it arise in those in whom it has not arisen;
May it never decline where it has arisen,
But go on increasing further and further!
May they not be separated from bodhicitta,
But be always inclined to enlightened action:
May they be cared for by the buddhas, and
May they abandon harmful action.
May the bodhisattvas’ good wishes
For benefitting beings be fulfilled.
Whatever the protectors have intended for them:
May sentient beings receive it.
May all sentient beings be happy.
May all the lower realms be forever empty.
May the aspirations of all the bodhisattvas
Of the various bhūmis be fulfilled!
Blessed one, tathāgata, arhat, complete and perfectly awakened Buddha, Protector Amitābha, together with your entire retinue, please watch over me!
Your wisdom heart overflows with the wisdom of knowing, with loving compassion, with awakening deeds, and the power to protect.
I beseech you therefore to make the Buddha’s doctrine flourish and spread,
To make the lives of the upholders of the teachings steadfast, to grant that all their visions be naturally fulfilled,
And to enhance and further the Saṅgha’s practice of the ten Dharma activities. 13
Through the power and force of that,
May all beings enjoy perfect happiness and wellbeing.
And, in particular, may we all—myself and all infinite beings—be purified of the two obscurations, may we perfect the two accumulations,
And may we be miraculously reborn in the hearts of lotus flowers in the Blissful pure realm. And, once there, may we reach complete, perfect awakening! I beseech you, grant your blessings that this may be so!
Through the force of the truth of the Three Jewels,
Through the strength and blessings of the thus-gone ones and their heirs,
Through the purity of the inconceivable dharmadhātu,
And through the invincible truth of the noble ones’ sacred bonds of the noble ones—those whose actions of form, speech, and heart are utterly pure—
Here at this site resplendent with offerings, may the genuine, perfectly awakened teacher, the protector Amitābha, and all the thus-gone ones and their heirs from all ten directions and all three times, all seated here together in a great assembly, partake of these offerings
And bestow their blessings that my mantra recitation may be correctly accomplished,
Securing thereby my own and other beings’ immense benefit!
From the wisdom forms of the tathāgata Amitābha and his retinue, light rays stream out filling the entire universe.
They entreat all noble ones to act for beings’ benefit.
May the lower realms thereby be purified, and may all beings be guided to the higher realms and freedom’s state.
As the light rays extend to us all, may they endow us with the ability to accomplish boundless benefit for beings
And so become equal to the thus-gone ones, to their wisdom form, speech, and mind!
The light rays then gather together and permeate the mantra water in the vase.
May they sanctify the water as amṛta that pacifies all adverse conditions and brings forth glory and perfect bliss.
The light rays permeate our bodies, the bodies of the practice focus, the environment, and all objects.
May they dispel all sickness and harmful forces,
May they free us from all physical and mental flaws,
And so make us fit vessels for the Dharma.
By reciting the dhāraṇī mantra while focused on the noble ones, as if they were vividly present before us,
May we come to realize myriad samādhis of the thus-gone ones and their heirs, may we come to understand infinite words and syllables, and may we be purified and blessed.
Light rays stream out from my heart centre,
Invoking the wisdom hearts of the buddhas and their retinues.
Their light rays of compassion
Purify my own and others’ obscurations.
Thus we become fit vessels for both the cause and result
Of taking birth in the Blissful pure realm.
oṃ padma-dhari hūṃ
teyathā | oṃ amite | amitodbhava | amita saṃbhava | amita vikrānte | amita gamini | gagaṇa-kīrti kare | sarvakarma kleśa kṣayaṃ kari svāhā ||
Once more, by invoking the deities’ sacred bonds, light rays stream forth from their forms, permeating the vase water, and thereby endowing it to perfection with the buddhas’ awakened deeds.
To those whose knowledge extends to all things throughout the infinite bounds of all ten directions, to the ocean of blessed buddhas and bodhisattvas of the ten directions, I pay homage!
Cleansing my mind of the mucky sludge of doubt,
I first pay homage to the Invincible King of Śākyas.
To the victor and guru Boundless Light in his Blissful realm,
I bow down with joy and deepest respect.
To all the buddhas of the present, residing throughout space
Because of their love for wandering beings,
And to all the buddhas of the future, and likewise of the past,
I offer worship filled with joy and delight.
namo ratna trayāya | namo bhagavate | vajra-sāra-pramardane | tathāgatāyārhate samyak-saṃbhuddhāya | tadyathā | oṃ vajre vajre mahā-vajre | mahā-tejavajre | mahā-yidyāvajre | mahā-bodhicitta-vajre mahābodhi-maṇḍopasaṃ-kramaṇa-vajre | sarva-karmāvaraṇa-viśodhana-vajre svāhā ||
To the vast ocean of noble qualities—
The buddha, the sacred Dharma,
And the noble Saṅgha, throughout the three times—
To them all, in their entirety, I go for refuge.
All non-virtue I confess.
In beings’ virtue I rejoice.
Please, turn the wheel of Dharma
And do not enter final awakening.
You with all-knowing eyes,
Whatever meager virtue I have accrued
May it help appease the suffering
Of those destitute and devoid.
With the samadhi that knows emptiness
Replete with all supreme qualities,
May we go from happiness to happiness
Throughout all our lives until awakening!
May we remain constantly in equipoise
In the naturally present state, concept-free,
And, like moon and sun, like music and jewels,
May we naturally bring benefit to beings.
Just as the victorious ones, so expert and wise,
Dedicate all virtue as a means to perfecting knowledge,
I too will dedicate all virtue and goodness
To awakening in the very same way.
Whatever virtue I gather through body, speech, or mind,
All focused on the Three Precious Jewels,
Through giving, discipline, patience, diligence,
Through concentration or knowledge—
May it all be a cause for fulfilling these aims:
May I develop pure conduct,
May I be ordained in the Buddha’s teachings,
May I attain deepest delight, with senses perfectly intact,
May I become perfectly learned in all the teachings of the buddhas,
In both the meaning and the words of the scriptures,
And so may I embody and uphold the sacred Dharma,
Without the slightest concern for my body or life.
When the time of death comes,
May my mind be clear and unconfused,
May I see Buddha Boundless Life
And migrate to the Blissful realm.
When the māras manifest their trickery,
May the great sage, Buddha Boundless Life,
Be there to act as our teacher and guide.
Thereby, may we reach the ten noble stages
And, traversing them step by pristine step,
May we attain supreme awakening!
As we reach the state of Buddha Samantabhadra,
May our faults and habits be uprooted, once and for all,
So that, armed with flawless wisdom and compassion,
We may provide comfort and bliss to all beings!
Through these roots of virtue, may all six classes of wandering beings be established in the perfection of generosity.
Likewise, may they be established in the perfections of discipline, patience, diligence, concentration, knowledge, skillful means, aspirations, power, and wisdom.
In the same way, may all beings be established on the ten noble stages of Perfect Joy, Stainless, Luminous, Radiant, Hard to Conquer, Clearly Manifest, Far Progressed, Immovable, Perfect Intellect, and Cloud of Dharma.
In the same way, may they be established in the vajra-like samādhi, in the samādhi that accumulates what is needed for diligence in gaining stability, in the samādhi that brings certainty, in the all-clarifying samādhi, in the all-illuminating samādhi, in the jewel crest samādhi, in the jewel moon samadhi, in the victory-banner tip samādhi, in the samādhi that gathers compassion, and in the samādhi skilled in knowing how to teach the various categories of words describing phenomena.
In the same way, may all beings be established in the dhāraṇī that accomplishes inexhaustible, oceanic mudrās, in the dhāraṇī that engages with the conduct of beings, in the dhāraṇī of the sun’s top ornament that illuminates infinitely, in the noble dhāraṇī of the majesty of the untarnished moon, in the dhāraṇīs that eradicate all entangling defilements, that blow away all afflictions by teaching the vajra-essence, that subsume the ineffable ultimate, that explain the meaning of covert terms, that accomplish stainlessness like the very center of the sun, that seal all with the mark of inexhaustibility, and that accomplish the buddhas’ infinite wisdom forms.
In the same way, having established all beings in the ten perfections and so forth, right up to the ten gateways of dhāraṇī, may we all, after death, be reborn in the Blissful pure realm, and there may we delight blessed tathāgata Amitābha, blessed Avalokiteśvara and blessed Vajrapāṇi, and may we likewise delight all the bodhisattvas and their retinues!
May we do nothing to displease the blessed ones and their retinues!
Homage to the tathāgata Amitābha!
tadyathā | padme padmane padma-locane padmasambhave svāhā
Homage to the tathāgata Amitābha!
tadyathā | amitodbhava | amitasambhave | amita vikrante | gagaṇa-kīrti kari | sarva-karma kleśa kṣayaṃ kari svāhā |
Through the force of the truth of Buddha, Dharma, and Saṅgha,
Through the blessings of all the buddhas and bodhisattvas,
Through the great power of the completed accumulation of merit and wisdom,
And through the purity of the inconceivable dharmadhātu, may all these wishes be perfectly fulfilled!
namo ratna trayāya | namo bhagavate | vajra-sāra-pramardane | tathāgatāyārhate samyak-saṃbhuddhāya | tadyathā | oṃ vajre vajre mahā-vajre | mahā-teja-vajre | mahā-yidyā-vajre | mahā-bodhicitta-vajre mahā-bodhi-maṇḍopasaṃ-kramaṇa-vajre | sarvakarmāvaraṇaviśodhanavajre svāhā ||
To all the buddhas, the lions of the human race,
In all directions of the universe, through past and present and future:
To every single one of you, I bow in homage;
Devotion fills my body, speech and mind.
Through the power of this prayer, aspiring to Good Action,
All the victorious ones appear, vivid here before my mind
And I multiply my body as many times as atoms in the universe,
Each one bowing in prostration to all the buddhas.
In every atom preside as many buddhas as there are atoms,
And around them, all their bodhisattva heirs:
And so I imagine them filling
Completely the entire space of reality.
Saluting them with an endless ocean of praise,
With the sounds of an ocean of different melodies
I sing of the buddhas’ noble qualities,
And praise all those who have gone to perfect bliss.
To every buddha, I make offerings:
Of the loveliest flowers, of beautiful garlands,
Of music and perfumed ointments, the best of parasols,
The brightest lamps and finest incense.
To every buddha, I make offerings:
Exquisite garments and the most fragrant scents,
Powdered incense, heaped as high as Mount Meru,
Arranged in perfect symmetry.
Then the vast and unsurpassable offerings—
Inspired by my devotion to all the buddhas, and
Moved by the power of my faith in Good Actions—
I prostrate and offer to all you victorious ones.
Whatever negative acts I have committed,
While driven by desire, hatred and ignorance,
With my body, my speech and also with my mind,
Before you, I confess and purify each and every one.
With a heart full of delight, I rejoice at all the merits
Of buddhas and bodhisattvas,
Pratyekabuddhas, those in training and the arhats beyond training,
And every living being, throughout the entire universe.
You who are like beacons of light shining through the worlds,
Who passed through the stages of enlightenment, to attain buddhahood, freedom from all attachment,
I exhort you: all of you protectors,
Turn the unsurpassable wheel of Dharma.
Joining my palms together, I pray
To you who intend to pass into nirvāṇa,
Remain, for aeons as many as the atoms in this world,
And bring well-being and happiness to all living beings.
What little virtue I have gathered through my homage,
Through offering, confession, and rejoicing,
Through exhortation and prayer—all of it
I dedicate to the enlightenment of all beings!
Blessed one, tathāgata, arhat, complete and perfect Buddha Amitābha, together with all the victors and your heirs throughout the whole of space, all gathered here before me, as I pray to you to enact your awakened deeds for the benefit of myself and the endless multitude of beings, I request your forgiveness:
We beings of these dark times are of base and lowly conduct and, due to ignorance and heedlessness, our words, thoughts, and deeds are tainted by the afflictions, our offerings are meager, paltry, and unclean, and we are incapable of correcting performing the rituals taught in the sūtras and tantras.
For these and other such mistakes and shortcomings, all you noble ones of great compassion, I ask your forgiveness! Please, look upon me with love, grant your forgiveness, and, I beseech you, bestow your blessings that these mistakes will not obscure us, neither in the short-term nor the long.
Before me is Amitābha.
In his heart centre is a hrīḥ . From it, a second hrīḥ appears.
It passes through his right nostril,
Enters through my left, and travels down to my heart centre.
It radiates boundless light rays
Which purify my misdeeds, obscurations, and habits.
Then, together with my exhalation of breath,
It emerges from my right nostril,
Enters the Blessed One through his left nostril, and dissolves back into hrīḥ .
The victor’s wisdom mind and my own mind are indivisible.
I let be, within this thought-free state.
Guru Amitābha
Dissolves into me with great joy
And I myself take on the Buddha’s form.
And the activities taming beings are perfected.
Just as the bodhisattva Mañjuśrī attained omniscience,
And Samantabhadra too
All these merits now I dedicate
To train and follow in their footsteps.
As all the victorious buddhas of past, present and future
Praise dedication as supreme,
So now I dedicate all these roots of virtue
For all beings to perfect Good Actions.
When it is time for me to die,
Let all that obscures me fade away, so
I look on Amitābha, there in person,
And go at once to his pure land of Sukhāvatī.
In that pure land, may I actualize every single one
Of all these aspirations!
May I fulfil them, each and every one,
And bring help to beings for as long as the universe remains!
Born there in a beautiful lotus flower,
In that excellent and joyous buddha realm,
May the Buddha Amitābha himself
Grant me the prophecy foretelling my enlightenment!
Having received the prophecy there,
With my billions of emanations,
Sent out through the power of my mind,
May I bring enormous benefit to sentient beings, in all the ten directions! 20
By the blessings of the buddhas who have attained the three kāyas,
By the blessings of the unchanging truth of dharmatā,
And by the blessings of the unshakable will of the Saṅgha,
May our every wish and dedication be fulfilled!
Unsurpassable supreme teacher, supreme among those who are great––
May your blessings, King of the Dharma, Sun-like Conqueror,
Pacify harmful enemies, māras, and obstacles!
May all be ever-glorious and auspicious, throughout day and night!
May this very place itself enjoy happiness and peace, at dusk and at dawn!
May midday too be delightful and comfortable!
May the auspiciousness of the Three Jewels be ever-present,
Causing peace and happiness throughout day and night!