The Spontaneous Sound of Uncontrived Song A Lament Recalling the Great Guru of Oḍḍiyāna
Emaho!
Turn your attention towards us, nirmāṇakāya master of great compassion!
Lord of incomparable knowledge, love and power,
Vidyādhara Tötreng Tsal, to you I pray:
Dispel outer, inner and secret obstacles into absolute space!
Inspire us with your blessings to realize our aspirations
For all forms of dharmic and temporal excellence!
In the past, when the King of Zahor tried
To burn you, the self-arisen Lake-born Vajra, alive,
Harm from the four elements became an adornment of awareness and emptiness,
And in the midst of the clear, cool waters, complete with their eight qualities,
You appeared upon a water-born lotus ornamented with petals,
In a dazzling form complete with all the signs and marks.
The king and the assembly of ministers could not withstand
The overwhelming onrush of faith and were instantly compelled
To join the lotus petals of their fingers
At the domes of Jālandhara at their crowns. 1
Then, when herds of elephant-like māras and tīrthika heretics
Were rampant—their bodies bloated with vanity and pride
And the long trunks of their evil actions reaching out—
Siṃhamukhā, the wrathful ḍākinī with the face of a lion,
Drew all three realms at once into her mouth,
And then, from the É expanse, invoked your wisdom mind with the sound of Hūṃ and Phaṭ.
You assumed the form of a great subduer of demons, and
Miraculously, with the sharp fangs and claws of scripture and reasoning,
Slaughtered opponents and feasted on their remains,
The roar of your renown rending the three worlds asunder.
Then the devas who dwell above the earth
Named you Senge Dradrok—Lion’s Roar,
And when you displayed the full extent of your greatness,
Even the daughter of the earth could not bear it 2
And appeared to shake and groan at the challenge.
In this way, O incomparable Mahāguru.
You assumed myriad guises, peaceful and wrathful, here,
And now that I celebrate the great good fortune
Of beholding this sublime and special place directly for myself,
The infant of my mind dances about frantically in joy,
And this uncontrived song bursts forth spontaneously from my throat.
Supreme source of refuge, until the realms of beings are emptied,
Do not neglect your commitment to bring benefit and happiness,
And as we remind you of it and invoke this, your vajra promise,
Cause the signs and marks of attainment swiftly to appear!
For us inhabitants of the Land of Snows in particular—
May all of us, sublime protectors and humble followers alike—
Arrive, even without discussion, at a state of unity of mind,
Remember you, Lord of Oḍḍiyāna, continuously day and night,
And call out to you in intense lamentation and despair—
At this, will you whose love is so great remain unmoved?
Show us now the strength of your compassion and power!
Grant us, your devoted followers, empowerment and blessings,
Cause teachers to live long and the teachings to flourish in all directions,
And bring all positive aspirations for beings’ happiness
And practice of the Dharma readily to fulfilment!