A Sādhana of Tārā Sarasvatī Refuge and Bodhicitta Visualization Offerings Praise Dedication and Aspiration
Namo. In the guru, Three Jewels and swift and glorious Lady,
I take refuge with devotion. To bring all beings, as vast as space in number,
To supreme, unsurpassable awakening,
I shall meditate on noble Sarasvatī.
A. Instantly, upon a lotus and moon disk seat,
Appears Sarasvatī, whose face is the colour of the autumn moon. 1
She sits in relaxed, cross-legged posture.
Her right hand is in the gesture of supreme generosity,
Her left hand in the gesture of granting refuge, symbolizing the Three Jewels,
And holding an utpala flower, on top of which is a mirror marked by hrīṃ ,
From which light rays radiate out,
Opening the treasure of intelligence—
Like the light of thousands of stars,
Of the omniscient, perfect knowledge of the victorious ones.
oṃ padmo-yoginī tāre tuttāre ture prajñā hrīṃ hrīṃ svāhā
hrīṃ hrīṃ hrīṃ
tadyathā | khali khali balite svāhā
tadyathā | smṛti mati prajñā hu ru me svāhā
oṃ smṛti mati gambhīra hrīḥ svāhā
oṃ mahā-mati prajñā-jñāna huru huru vardhāni svāhā
I present both material offerings and those created by the mind,
Such as flowers, incense, lights, perfume, food, and music,
To the assembly of exalted deities:
Accept them, I pray!
Clouds of offerings containing a pure realm, its ground made of vajras,
And including the four continents and Mount Meru;
A splendid garland of offerings, infinite and inconceivable,
I present with utmost devotion to you, Tārā—
Mother of all the buddhas.
ārya-tārā saparivāra arghaṃ pādyaṃ puṣpe dhūpe āloke gandhe naivedye śabda pratīcchaya svāhā
Homage to you whose countenance is like
A hundred full moons gathered in autumn,
Smiling and glowing with brilliant radiance,
Like a thousand stars clustered, ablaze. 4
The environment and beings within it melt into light and dissolve into me.
I dissolve into referenceless luminosity.
The heroic lady arises as the great union of appearance and emptiness,
Protecting us from all adversity.
vajra-rakṣa
Through the positivity and merit of this, may I swiftly
Attain the realization of the goddess Sarasvatī, and thereby
Every single sentient being
Reach her state of perfection too.