Excellent Vase of Splendour The Tsok Feast Offering to Accompany the Vajra Seven-Line Prayer
Hūṃ. With āḥ appears a skullcup, as vast as the space of dharmadhātu,
With oṃ, all appearance and existence are displayed as the tsok offerings
With hūṃ, they transform into the wisdom play of great bliss,
With hrīḥ, gurus, devas and ḍākinīs, all the deities gathered, are pleased and satisfied.
oṃ āḥ hūṃ hrīḥ
Hūṃ! In the north-west of the land of Oḍḍiyāna,
In the heart of a lotus flower,
Endowed with the most marvellous attainments,
You are renowned as the Lotus-born,
Surrounded by many hosts of ḍākinīs.
Following in your footsteps,
We invite you to this feast of desirable offerings,
So come now, bless us with your grace!
Pour down your blessings on this sublime place,
Transform the gaṇacakra offerings into wisdom nectar,
Grant us, the supreme practitioners, the four empowerments,
Dispel obstructors, negative forces and obstacles
And confer siddhis, ordinary and supreme.
Hūṃ. Beloved master Pema Tötrengtsal,
With your throng of vidyādharas and ḍākinīs,
Encompassing the three roots in this maṇḍala of the buddhas,
In deep devotion, with fervent yearning, I pray to you.
All the merit of my and others’ body, speech and mind, our wealth,
And everything desirable in the universe, every source of pleasure and enjoyment with nothing left out,
I offer as Samantabhadra’s unending gaṇacakra of great bliss.
With all your compassion and love, accept them with delight, so your heart’s wishes are fulfilled.
Guru Rinpoche, I pray to you;
Vidyādharas and ḍākinīs, inspire me with your blessings;
Grant this devoted disciple attainments, ordinary and supreme;
Let all my impairments and breakages of samaya be healed, I pray.
Obstacles outer, inner and secret—liberate them all into dharmadhātu.
Until I realize enlightenment, hold me close, without ever parting,
Like the waxing moon let my lifespan, merit, experience and realization grow ever greater,
And bless me so that all my aspirations spontaneously come true.
oṃ āḥ hūṃ vajra-guru-padma siddhi hūṃ