The Swift Accomplishment of Enlightened Activity through Invocation and Offering 1 i. Peaceful ii. Enriching iii. Magnetizing iv. Wrathful v. Varied
Ho! Turn your attention towards us!
Ho! Turn your attention towards us!
Ho! Turn your attention towards us!
From the unborn nature, the sphere of reality,
The dynamic energy of compassion manifests in a ceaseless display,
The victorious and powerful Guru Tsokyé Dorjé, the three families and the magical display of peaceful and wrathful deities all gathered into a single form—
Great being Gesar, Vidyādhara Norbu Dradül—
You are the embodiment of all the buddhas,
And all-pervading master of the peaceful and wrathful yidam deities,
Lord of all the gatherings of mamos and ḍākinīs,
Chief of all the dharmapālas and guardians,
Heart-treasure of the ocean-like wealth deities,
King of all the dralas,
Vital heart of all the wermas,
Sovereign over all the eight classes,
Master of life for all the arrogant spirits,
Aid to all positive forces,
Drala for all that lives,
Glorious protector of all sentient beings,
Life-pillar for all vidyādharas,
Support of Buddhist and Bönpo alike,
Mighty lord of activity, subduer of demons,
Vanquisher of all negative forces,
Stealer of the lives of all samaya-breakers,
Great slayer of all māras and rākṣasas,
Your body moves in a pleasing dance, subjugating the three planes of existence,
Your speech resounds with an awesome thunder, magnetizing the three realms,
Your mind generates the maṇḍala of wisdom and love from the expanse of luminosity.
The mere thought of you brings cloud-like blessings and accomplishments.
Riding your vajra steed, wild and skilful, you move through the air.
You gather in ‘ki’ and you delight in ‘so’.
You are mighty in punishment and respect the Dharma.
Your right hand holds the Wish-Granting cane which brings down a rain of gems and all that beings wish for and require,
The spear in your left hand subdues all enemies throughout the three realms and bears the flag of the dralas.
Your body is clad in full drala costume.
Emanating clouds of dralas and wermas,
You are surrounded by a retinue of virtuous dharma protectors,
The glorious protectors of the pure abodes,
Your entire retinue of dralas and wermas.
And all the great armies of Tukkar and Changsé.
Although the clear light of your wisdom mind is free from any trace of conceptualization,
Through the force of dependent origination and the compassionate aspirations you have made, you determine good and bad, and keep watch over the teachings.
You delight in all that is finest in this world, and journey through peoples’ lands.
You look after practitioners who keep the samaya, like a parent caring for his children, and bring the longevity and fortune of the dralas.
You reduce samaya-breakers to misery and ferociously consume their hearts.
You gather when offerings are made and support us when practice is done.
You are swift when dispatched, and your might is unrivalled.
You never ignore those who depend on you.
You never turn away from the tasks entrusted to you.
You bring good fortune and are warm-hearted.
Your blessings are great and your powers swift.
Your actions are positive and enduringly powerful.
You guide beings from happiness to happiness and to the sanctuary of supreme enlightenment.
Great treasury of the two kinds of siddhi, Great Lion Norbu Dradül, we invoke you!
We invoke the great warrior-spirit of the buddhadharma!
We invoke the vidyādhara and supreme ornament of this world!
We invoke the bearer of the sword of wisdom and the bow and arrow!
We invoke the one who averts battles and knows no afflictions!
We invoke the one who defeats hordes of brave enemy demons!
We invoke the one who dispels any fear of the four māras!
From now until we attain the essence of enlightenment,
With the great victory banner of faith and unchanging trust,
We rely on you, Great Lion-like King of the Dharmapālas, as our wish-granting jewel.
On the ground of unchanging samaya,
We rely on you, Great Lion-like King of the Dralas, as our great cosmic mountain.
In the sky of pure approach and accomplishment,
We rely on you, Great Lion-like King of the Wermas, as our sun and moon.
There can be no error as to which dharma protector should be relied upon,
No mistaking the proper object of faith,
And no confusion about the offering deity.
Great Lion and Wish-fulfilling Jewel, together with your retinue — the armies of wisdom dralas and wermas,
Always remember the great vajra samaya free from uniting or separation,
And look upon us, your face lit up with joy!
Protect us, your eyes sparkling as you smile!
Reveal hidden meanings to us, your voice filled with laughter!
All of us, the master and the retinue of students, request you: with a heart of joy take charge of our environment, our bodies, and our possessions!
Show us the actual signs of accomplishment!
Carry out the activities we request of you, just as we wish!
Be successful in the actions you have pledged to undertake!
Ensure that all the actions of our body, speech and mind remain virtuous and auspicious!
Cause our meditative experiences and realization to increase!
Cause our wisdom and positive qualities to grow!
Grant us vast siddhis of long life, merit, glory, wealth, fame, and good fortune, here and now!
Reveal to us the secret of awareness, the meaning of intrinsic reality!
Empower us with your blessings and with primordial wisdom!
Make whatever we do an expression of the Dharma!
Make all our relationships and associations meaningful!
Let us accomplish, effortlessly and spontaneously, all supreme and ordinary siddhis without exception!
Ho! Great king of the dralas, at times you appear peaceful with a bright complexion,
Your happy face shining in contentment like the moon,
Dancing with joy amidst clouds of all that is desirable.
The sight of you captivates our minds,
The thought of you increases our lifespan,
Through your practice, our splendour grows,
Master of deathlessness and longevity,
You bring down showers of amrita—the nectar of immortality,
Great deliverer of prosperity, you cause happiness, well-being and renown to increase,
Source of all that is auspicious,
You are the basis for all good fortune,
The support for all positive qualities,
The great embodiment of all that is glorious and magnificent,
A jewel to dispel poverty,
An elixir to overcome disease,
The great sound of victory from the battle-drum of the gods bringing new life to the weary,
King of indestructible vitality, good fortune and enjoyment, together with your awesome armies of dralas and wermas, we invoke you!
Your body of pure luminosity appears once again
In a tent of rainbow-clouds in space,
With the youthful complexion of a sixteen-year-old,
Radiant and white, pure as crystal.
In your right hand, you hold a jewelled torch
To light up the three realms.
In your left hand, you hold a mirror of white silver
To reveal the three planes of existence.
You dance the dance of the vīras of the male line,
And sing the songs of the ḍākinīs of the female line.
Master of the divining mirror of clear appearance,
King of the all-illuminating wermas,
You reside in the castle of magical creation,
And apply your powers of divination,
Revealing the good and the bad in apparent existence.
Great master of the four knowledges and eight visions,
You hold aloft the magical torch of wisdom,
Its flames of insight burning brightly.
You unlock the secret gateway to awareness and higher perception,
And bestow the great treasures of a clear and brilliant mind.
Magical king, Great Lion, radiant Akar Werma of Light, together with the armies of all-illuminating dralas and wermas, we invoke you!
An ocean of the three whites and three sweets,
Silk ribbons and banners that flutter in the wind,
The thundering sound of beating drums, melodious chanting and tuneful music,
Offering clouds containing all kinds of pleasant substances,
Food offerings and mountainous heaps of buttered barley flour,
Flowers and billowing clouds of fragrant incense smoke,
Fresh drinking-water, and streams to bathe the feet,
Orbs of light reflected in clear bright mirrors,
Sweet-smelling perfumes and rivers of nectar, and more besides—
With these vast outer, inner and secret offerings, both real and imagined,
Great being Gesar Norbu, king of the dralas, Akar Werma of Light, together with your retinue,
We make offerings to you!
We exalt you!
We honour and praise you!
We fulfil your noble wishes!
We offer the drink of warriors!
And confess our breakages of samaya!
We inspire great joy!
We invoke your solemn pledge!
For us awareness-holders and practitioners, dispel all misfortune and adversity—illness, harmful influences, obstacles and inauspiciousness—just like the sun banishing darkness!
When enemies arise, arouse us to action!
When poison appears, send us the antidote!
Show us the way through uncharted rocky terrain!
Build us bridges across unfordable rivers!
Convey us to the good and across mountain passes!
Deliver us from the bad and from remote valleys!
Avert scandal and malicious gossip!
Prevent adverse circumstances and obstacles!
Uplift us when we are low!
Prompt us when we forget!
Create mountains to flee to!
Make us forests to hide in!
Build secure fortresses to rely upon!
Fashion impenetrable armour!
And forge piercing weapons!
Teach us all that remains unknown!
Reveal all that is unseen!
Guard us during the day!
And watch over us at night!
Provide us with assistance at home!
And make us welcome abroad!
Open the gateways to insight and wisdom!
Reveal to our minds the signs of future dependent arising!
Make our self-assurance as vast as space!
Cause our strength and power to expand like the firestorm at the end of an aeon!
Sound the music of happiness, well-being and renown!
Open the treasury of inexhaustible glorious qualities!
Illuminate the sun of our perceptions by day!
Make bright the moon of our dreams by night!
Inflame the light-rays of experience in the interim!
Show us clearly the three planes of existence!
Vividly describe for us the three realms!
Show us nakedly all that is positive and negative in the three worlds!
Bring all our hopes and aspirations to fruition!
Ho! At times, you appear resplendent and content,
In your great palace that gathers the glorious qualities of existence and peace,
In the form of the ‘king who transforms apparent existence into all that is desirable’.
In your right hand you hold the ‘king of wish-fulfilling power’,
And in your left hand, the vase of inexhaustible treasure.
You revel in the pleasure grove of wish-granting trees,
Master of wish-fulfilling treasures,
King of precious gems,
Holder of the wealth of China and Tibet,
And hook to gather food and riches,
In space, you collect the prosperity of the gods as clouds of nectar;
In the sky, you draw in the prosperity of human beings as a mist of positive signs;
On the ground, you gather the prosperity of the nāgas as the creamy ocean of the Mu; 3
And let fall the prosperity of Ma 4 as a rain of all that is desirable.
Great banner of renown,
Conveyor of a hundred thunderclaps of fame,
Master of the vital essence of existence and peace,
Basis of fortune, prosperity and enjoyments,
Symphony of assorted wishes and desires,
The sight of you captivates our minds,
Your beauty increases our prosperity,
You take victory for all who are good,
And journey at the crowns of all who are great. 5
Magnificent turner of the wheel of activity, completely victorious over all,
You raise the standards of spiritual and secular authority higher than the very sky,
And extend the range of our dominion beyond the limits of space—
To the Great Lion, Wish-Fulfilling Jewel, together with your armies of treasure-keeping dralas and wermas,
Mountains of food,
Oceans of drink,
Dances of seductive form,
Sweet music with a hundred melodies,
Clouds of fragrant incense,
Sumptuous banquets of delicious fare,
Festivals that inspire feelings of joy,
Offerings of things of wonder,
Billowing clouds of the six kinds of sensory delight,
Perfectly arrayed tokens of fortune and articles of prosperity—
In short, all the riches of existence and peace with nothing lacking,
Offering clouds of vajra bliss and emptiness in which all the positive signs of saṃsāra, nirvāṇa and the path, and all the most essential glorious qualities are gathered together, crackling, vibrating, trembling and shaking—with these sublime offering-clouds in which apparent existence arises as all that is desirable,
We make offerings to you!
We exalt you!
We honour and praise you!
We fulfil your noble wishes!
We offer the drink of warriors!
And confess our breakages of samaya!
We inspire great joy!
We invoke your solemn pledge!
For us vidyādhara yogins,
Bestow the food of great vitality!
Provide the clothing of resplendence!
Confer the treasure of great prosperity!
Hoist the flag of renown!
Sound the conch of fame!
Bring down a rain of all that is desirable!
Gather an ocean of good fortune!
Summon the vital essence of wealth and enjoyments!
Further increase our progeny, wealth and influence!
Bring us profit in business dealings!
Ensure our success in games of chance!
Grant awards 6 to the successful!
Sound the conch in the assembly!
Bring us victory in debate and sport!
Help us to rival those who surpass us!
And outshine those of equal standing!
Praise the victories of the good!
Create circumstances for every excellence!
Bring down powerful oppressors!
And eliminate thoughts of rivalry!
In short, empower us with the physical strength and might of the Great Lion Gesar and the dralas and wermas, and grant us all the siddhis of abundance here and now, this very instant!
Ho! At times, you appear smiling and seductive,
Amidst an expanse of red light that pervades the whole animate and inanimate universe; and with your vajra hook and lasso, you magically activate and summon the vital essence of existence and peace.
Your body sways in a dance of joy, stirring and captivating the three planes of existence.
With the roar of your laughter, you summon the three realms and bind them into service.
You take pleasure in the vital essence and magnificent qualities of existence and peace, and glance about in amusement.
You perform your dance of delight with radiant charm,
And sing your song of joy in harmonious tones.
You dissolve the outer world and beings within it into red light,
And strike the animate and inanimate like cymbals.
You laugh with the thunderous roar of a drala,
And unfurl the banner of the wermas.
Like lightning streaking through the sky, you playfully assume a variety of expressions.
With your indestructible compassion born of bliss and emptiness,
No-one in apparent existence can resist your captivating powers.
To the Great Lion Gesar, powerful wish-fulfilling king, together with your armies of dralas and wermas who carry out magnetizing activity,
An ocean of medicinal nectar,
A mountain of wish-fulfilling tormas,
Vast rivers of flowing red rakta,
Clouds of sweet-fragranced incense,
The movements of the vajra dance,
The melodies of harmonious song,
The dances of courageous warriors,
The beguiling chants of wisdom consorts,
Offerings of the bliss-emptiness experience,
The music of co-emergent melting bliss,
The beautiful and seductive who gladly and smilingly embrace—with this sublime gift in which apparent existence becomes a boundless symphony of indestructible bliss and emptiness, we make offerings to you!
We exalt you!
We honour and praise you!
We fulfil your noble wishes!
We offer the drink of warriors!
And confess our breakages of samaya!
We inspire great joy!
We invoke your solemn pledge!
For us vidyādhara yogins, develop our powers of physical attraction!
Grant us the capacity for prophetic speech!
Ignite the samādhi of bliss-emptiness in our minds!
Bring all that is visible under control!
Subjugate the three planes of existence!
Bind the three realms into service!
Stir people’s hearts!
Move people’s minds!
Magnetize appearances!
Bring us the vital essence of existence and peace!
Seat us upon the long hair 7 of the great!
Summon the wealth and splendour of the good!
Install us on the throne of great royal power!
Let whatever we desire fall into our hands!
In short, grant us, here and now, all the siddhis of magnetizing great bliss, and the vajra of wielding power over apparent existence!
Ho! At times, you appear fearsome and wrathful,
With your bow and arrow of means and wisdom, you stir the brains of the māras and rākṣasas.
With your sword of meteoric iron, you sever the heads of untamed rākṣasas.
With your vajra lance, you pierce the hearts of samaya-breakers.
With your iron hook of wrath, you gouge out the eyes of adversaries.
With your blazing knife, you cut the main artery of the enemy’s life-force.
You send out molten sparks of guardians
And press on the vital points of the gods and demons of the eight classes.
You hurl down male protectors like an avalanche,
And let fly female protectors like arrows.
You send forth wermas like shooting stars,
And crash the cymbals of appearance and existence.
From the sun and moon of your eyes blaze fires like those at the end of time.
The red lightning of your tongue lets fall the hail and thunder of fierce mantras.
From the billow of your mouth stirs a churning ocean of rakta.
From the ‘wind-chamber’ of your nose emerges a devastating storm, black as an apocalyptic gale.
From the stronghold of your body swirl thick clouds of drala battalions.
From the snow-caps of your teeth, poisoned arrows stream down like hail and sleet.
From the clear light of your enlightened mind blazes the great fire of vajra wrath.
In a ferocious rage, you feast on the flesh, blood and life-breath of your enemies.
To the wrathful Norbu Dradül Tsal whose might and power are unrivalled throughout the whole of apparent existence, together with an ocean of wermas who subjugate enemies and obstacle-makers, we offer a mountain of flesh from samaya-breaking enemies,
An ocean of blood,
Riverbanks of bones,
Forests made of hearts,
Thick swamps of marrow,
Fog and mist of steamy breath,
Smoky clouds of vast burnt offering,
Together with the flowers of the sense organs, and all our enemies’ strength, power, abilities, life, glory and riches—all this we offer to you, feeding it into your blazing mouth,
We exalt you!
We honour and praise you!
We fulfil your noble wishes!
We offer the drink of warriors!
And confess our breakages of samaya!
We inspire great joy!
We invoke your solemn pledge!
May all who would harm and injure us vidyādhara practitioners
Or harbour evil intentions against us,
All hostile enemies
And harmful obstructing forces—wherever they may be—be seen with your blazing eyes.
Let your summoning iron hook strike at their hearts,
Your tightening lasso bind fast their limbs,
Your cleaving sword slice off their heads,
Your piercing spear puncture their hearts,
And your swift arrows strike at their life-force.
Burn their hearts in apocalyptic flames.
Hack apart their bodies with your vajra weapons.
Bring down a rain of poison with your weapon of sickness.
Subdue their sorcery and evil omens.
Tear off the genitals of the males,
Dry up the wombs of the females.
Crush the force of their intentions, strength and capacity.
Cause the poisoned arrows of their evil schemes to fall back upon them.
Cause the weapons of their evil actions to bring their own destruction,
Do not put this off for years or even months; liberate them today—this very moment!
Avert all black magic, evil curses, malicious intentions and violent behaviour!
Bury evil enemies headfirst beneath the earth,
Praise and elevate friendly positive forces as high as the heavens!
Cause my own power, strength and capacity to flare up like the fires at the end of time!
In short, carry out completely whatever wrathful direct actions we request of you, exactly as we desire!
Ho! At times, you display miraculous, varied forms,
Travelling everywhere—through space, on earth and in the sky,
With mastery over infinite enlightened actions.
Merely through our wishes, you bestow accomplishment.
Simply by calling upon you, you move like lightning.
Through practice alone, we forge a samaya connection.
By mere invocation, you hasten to act.
To the Great Vajra Lion and the armies of dralas and wermas, we offer outer, inner and secret offering clouds and sacred wisdom nectar, all arisen from the display of Samantabhadra.
We exalt you!
We honour and praise you!
We fulfil your noble wishes!
We offer the drink of warriors!
And confess our breakages of samaya!
We inspire great joy!
We invoke your solemn pledge!
We invoke the vajra steed, 8 wild and skilful!
We invoke the four secret bringers of delight!
We invoke the general Mikmar Chenpo!
We invoke Damchen Dorje Lekpa!
We invoke Mentsün Dorje Yudrönma!
We invoke Magyal Dorje Draktsal!
We invoke the elder brother 9 Dungkhyung Karpo!
We invoke the armies of gods above!
We invoke the father 10 Gerdzo Nyenpo!
We invoke the armies of nyen in between!
We invoke the younger brother 11 Ludrül Öchung!
We invoke the armies of nāgas below!
We invoke the aunt 12 Gungmen Gyalmo!
We invoke the maṇḍalas of mamos of appearance and existence!
We invoke the younger sister 13 Talé Ökar!
We invoke the goddesses of the five elements!
We invoke the four gods of the miraculous windhorse!
We invoke the thirteen youthful drongyak! 14
We invoke the nine chiefs of the dralas!
We invoke the thirteen dralas of Gönpo!
We invoke the three drala brothers and their sisters!
We invoke the dralas of the outer and inner world!
We invoke the dralas of varied activity!
We invoke the powerful protector patron gods!
We invoke the dralas who protect the forces of good!
We invoke the 360 tukkars!
We invoke the Chongse, mighty gods of travel!
We invoke the wermas of the heavens, the earth and in-between!
We invoke the dralas and wermas of the retinue!
We invoke all the ḍākinīs and maidens!
We invoke the legions of valiant warriors!
We invoke the armies of emanated gods of service!
We invoke the arrogant spirits of apparent existence who obey commands!
We invoke the dralas and wermas of all apparent existence!
In short, to all the armies of dharmapālas, dralas and wermas in the maṇḍala of the Great Lion Dradül Gyalpo, whether they appear in wisdom, activity or worldly guise, we offer vast clouds of offering substances, both real and imagined!
We exalt you!
We honour and praise you!
We fulfil your noble wishes!
We offer the drink of warriors!
And confess our breakages of samaya!
We inspire great joy!
We invoke your solemn pledge!
Kye! Wisdom dharmapālas,
Mighty in action,
And powerful worldly guardians, all of you, consider us in your wisdom.
Look upon us with love, and through your great power, strength and capacity, for us and those around us, from now until we reach the essence of enlightenment—without ever straying from your activity of guarding and protecting, help us to accomplish all that we desire, without obstacle and exactly as we wish!
So! So! Amidst thick clouds of the dralas and wermas of appearance and existence,
Whose cries of laughter resound like the thunderous roars of a dragon,
Is the one who has the majesty and brilliance of a dozen suns,
Gesar, Norbu Dradül, in his wisdom form,
Riding upon the one with the strength and speed of the seven apocalyptic storms,
The miraculous vajra steed, wild and skilful.
The armour of the various dralas gleams in the light.
Within the indestructible fortress of the vajra body,
Armies of dralas and wermas are dispatched and recalled.
At the mere thought of which, positivity bursts forth like a storm.
With a mind of unchanging faith and samaya,
And with various samaya substances and clouds of offering,
We invoke you; we offer to you—may your noble wishes be fulfilled!
We exalt you; we honour and praise you, and offer nectar, drink of the warriors.
Inseparably, from the state of the vajra mind of appearance and emptiness,
Look upon me, your devoted follower.
Lord over the haughty ones, emanation of Padma and the three families,
Great Lion Gesar and your retinue of dralas and warriors,
In this practitioner’s body, speech and mind,
Ignite your blessings, power, strength and capacity.
Raise aloft the great banner of renown throughout the three planes of existence.
Let the great thunder of fame resound throughout the three worlds.
Outshine all who are hostile and antagonistic.
Let your enlightened activity reign victorious in all directions!