The Praise to Tārā with Twenty-One Verses of Homage, and the Excellent Benefits of Reciting the Praise The Excellent Benefits of the Praise
Oṃ. Homage to the noble lady Tārā!
Homage to Tārā, swift and gallant,
Homage to Tuttārā, who banishes fear,
Homage to Turā, who fulfils every need,
With svāhā we offer you honor and praise! 1
Homage to Tārā, swift and gallant,
Whose glance flashes like flares of lightning;
Born on the heart of a blossoming lotus
That rose from the tears of the Triple-World’s Lord. (1)
Homage to you whose countenance is
A hundred full moons gathered in autumn,
Smiling and glowing with brilliant radiance,
Like a thousand stars clustered, ablaze. (2)
Homage, golden lady, your lotus-hand
Is graced with a blue water-born flower.
You embody generosity, diligence, endurance,
Serenity, patience and meditation. (3)
Homage to you, whose victories are endless,
Jewel on the great Tathāgata’s crown.
You are well served by the heirs of the Victors,
Those who’ve accomplished all the perfections. (4)
Homage to you, who with tuttāra and hūṃ
Fill desire realms unto the ends of space.
You trample underfoot the seven worlds,
And have the strength to summon all. (5)
Homage to you, praised by Indra,
Agni, Brahmā, Maruts, 2 and Śiva.
All the hosts of bhūtas, vetālas,
Gandharvas and yakṣas pay tribute to you. (6)
Homage to you, who with traṭ and phaṭ
Crush the enemies’ yantras 3 to dust.
With right leg bent in and left leg extended,
Shining you tread amidst flames wildly blazing. (7)
Homage to Ture, the fearsome lady,
Destroyer of the most powerful demons.
With a lotus-face and a deep-furrowed brow,
You are the slayer of each and every foe. (8)
Homage to you, whose fingers grace
Your heart and display the Three Jewels mudrā .
You’re graced by wheels adorning every direction,
With dazzling radiance that overwhelms all. 4 (9)
Homage to you, supremely joyous,
Your splendorous crown spreading garlands of light.
Smiling and laughing, with tuttāre
You bring demons and worlds under control. (10)
Homage to you, who can summon
The hosts of earthly guardians.
Your frown it quivers, and the syllable hūṃ
Delivers us all from every misfortune. (11)
Homage to you, so brightly adorned,
With a sliver of moon as your crown, 5
Your locks are graced by Amitābha,
Whose gleaming rays stream forever forth. (12)
Homage to you, seated in a halo
Blazing with apocalyptic flames.
Your right leg stretched out and left bent inward,
Immersed in joy, you crush legions of foes. (13)
Homage to you, who on the earth’s surface
Strike your palms and stamp your feet;
Your brow deeply furrowed, with hūṃ you smash
The seven netherworlds to nothing but dust. (14)
Homage to you, blissful, gracious and tranquil,
Whose domain is the peace of nirvāṇa.
With oṃ and svāhā in perfect union,
You lay to waste every terrible evil. (15)
Homage to you, who, immersed in rapture,
Shatters the bodies of all your foes.
You manifest from the wisdom-syllable hūṃ , 6
And display each of your mantra’s ten syllables. (16)
Homage to Ture, your feet stomping boldly,
Formed from the seed of the syllable hūṃ .
The mountains of Meru, Mandara and Vindhya,
And all the three worlds, you cause them to quake. (17)
Homage to you, who hold in your hand
A deer-marked moon like a divine lake.
With tāra twice and then with phaṭ ,
You totally cleanse all of the poisons. (18)
Homage to you, who is served by kings
Of hosts divine, and of gods and kiṃnaras. 7
Suited in armour of joy and splendour,
You clear away nightmares, soothe away strife. (19)
Homage to you, whose eyes shine with lustre,
Bright with the fullness of sun and moon.
With twice-uttered hara and tuttāre
You pacify the most intractable diseases. (20)
Homage to you, who have the power to free,
You put forth the realities as a set of three.
Supreme Ture, you completely destroy
The hordes of grahas, 8 vetālas, 9 and yakṣas. 10 (21)
This Praise with the twenty-one verses of homage
Is itself the root mantra.
The wise who recite these words in earnest,
Filled with genuine devotion for this goddess, (22)
At dusk, and also having risen at dawn,
With recollection, will be granted fearlessness;
They will utterly eliminate all misdeeds,
And surmount all evil destinies. (23)
Seventy million victorious buddhas
Will swiftly confer empowerment upon them,
And they will attain greatness in this world,
And reach the ultimate state of buddhahood. (24)
Even the most powerful and toxic poisons,
Which derive from plants or living beings,
Whether eaten or taken as a draught,
Will be purged entirely by recalling this praise. (25)
Reciting this two or three or seven times 11
Will eliminate multitudes of suffering
Brought about by spirits, pestilence, and poison—
And this applies even to other beings as well. (26)
Those who wish for progeny will bear them;
Those who wish for riches will acquire them;
Each and every wish will hereby be fulfilled,
And obstacles, entirely vanquished, will be no more. (27)