Naturally Arisen Heart-Essence A Guru Sādhana of Karma Pakshi The Main Practice: Guru Visualization and Recitation
Ah. Emptiness and compassion’s expressive power
In union, awareness play, appears as a bright red Hrīḥ.
It completely transforms into an immense palace
Of pure environment and inhabitants, in its centre of which,
Upon a legged throne of precious black aloe,
And lotus and sun- and moon-disc seats,
Is the guru of all-pervading vajra space,
Chökyi Lama, 1 dark red in colour.
His body is stout, his form resplendent.
His two eyes stare in a gaze of intensity,
And his goatee beard is lustrous and black.
The black hat upon his head shimmers with gold.
His two hands rest upon and cover his knees,
And he wears dharma robes and brocade cloak.
His two legs are in a half-crossed posture.
At his crown is Düsum Khyenpa, at his throat
Chödrak Gyatso, and in the centre of his heart
Rolpai Dorje, at the core of whose own heart
Is Rangjung Dorje; while at his navel
Is Tongwa Dönden, and at his secret place
Is Dezhin Shekpa—all of them vividly present.
Light shines from the three syllables at the three centres,
Inviting the wisdom beings, who dissolve inseparably.
Ah. From the dharmakāya palace of non-elaboration,
Come, I implore you, gurus of primordial purity.
From the sambhogakāya palace of pure radiance,
Come, I implore you, sugatas of the five families.
From the nirmāṇakāya palace of compassion,
Come, I implore you, vidyādhara gurus,
Hosts of yidam deities, peaceful and wrathful,
Vīras and ḍākinīs, together with your retinues.
Music of many varieties plays and resounds.
Parasols and victory banners flutter and sway.
Fragrant scents and incense waft upon the air.
With thunderous roars of "Hūṃ!" and "Phat!
Come now, tame the māras and those who lead astray.
Let blessings and attainments gather and converge.
Inspire this devoted child with your blessings.
Confer the four supreme vajra empowerments.
Grant attainments, ordinary and supreme.
kāya-vāk-citta tiṣṭha vajra
Hoḥ. To the hosts of guru vidyādharas and deities
Of my own awareness, pure from the beginning,
I bow down in the homage of self-recognition,
An encounter in non-duality, free from grasping.
atipu hoḥ praticcha hoḥ
oṃ āḥ hūṃ
All that appears arises as offering-clouds,
The adornment of the play of wisdom.
Beyond acceptance and rejection, I offer.
Delightedly accept these magnificent gifts.
namaḥ sarvatathāgatebhyo viśvamukhebhyaḥ | sarvathā kham udgate spharaṇa imaṃ gaganakhaṃ svāhā
oṃ sarva pūja samaya hoḥ
oṃ āḥ hūṃ svāhā
Vajra body, the magnificent kāya,
Vivid and resplendent wisdom—
To all the sugatas of the Three Times
And the expanse of realization beyond meeting and parting, I offer praise.
With the lion’s roar of selflessness
You dispel the darkness of beings’ ignorance—
To the treasury of an Ocean of Dharma,
Proclaimed in sixty melodious tones, I offer praise. 2
With mastery of non-conceptual wisdom mind,
Profound, serene, unelaborate and sky-like,
Utterly beyond characterizable phenomena—
To you, Naturally Arisen Vajra Luminosity, I offer praise. 3
Like a wish-granting gem or excellent vase,
You confer the finest benefit and happiness.
Treasury of oceanic qualities of freedom and maturation,
To you, the Sight of Whom is Beneficial, I offer praise. 4
Simply to follow you is enough to bring about
The spontaneous and effortless accomplishment
Of a trove of ordinary and supreme attainments—
Activity of the Tathāgatas, to you I offer praise. 5
Though you’re beyond being praised and praising,
Through this merely illusory form of tribute,
May we gain miraculous powers and skill beyond measure,
Just like those of this guru of the Dharma—Chökyi Lama. 6
oṃ āḥ hūṃ karma-vajra-mahāguru sarva siddhi hūṃ svāhā
Performer of the activity of the Victors of the Three Times,
Possessor of an infinite, ocean-like treasury of teachings,
Karma Pakshi, at your feet I pray:
Please avert obstacles and Māra’s forces.