Beautiful Adornment of the Earth: A Praise
Svā. Kṣitigarbha, Essence of the Earth, you who nurture all beings,
Like the underlying ground, you support qualities of many kinds,
Like a wish-granting gem, you fulfil the hopes of the three worlds.
Lord of the ten bhūmis, to you I offer homage and praise.
From stage to stage you lead, establishing at the level of the victorious,
Like the earth’s nourishing essence that yields a steady flow of produce,
This earth that is replete with riches and many forms of bounty—
To you, supreme deity of the earth, I offer homage and praise.
You are like an excellent vase, a wish-fulfilling tree,
Clouds of perfection, or a lake of healing nectar:
To think of you brings lasting splendour and magnificence.
Embodiment of compassion, to you I offer homage and praise.
With supreme qualities of the infinite victors and their heirs,
You alone are the sovereign lord of the treasury of space,
And in the realms of the bodhisattvas’ limitless ways,
You uphold the victorious buddhas’ activity—to you I bow.
With the jewel-like rays of your boundless qualities,
You overwhelm all faults and failings in this degenerate time,
And promote the glory of fourfold wellbeing. 1
To you who perform great waves of enlightened action, I offer homage and praise.
Instead of many aeons of manifold veneration and prayer
To Mañjughoṣa, Lokeśvara, 2 Samantabhadra,
Ajita 3 and the rest—supreme bodhisattva heirs of the victorious ones,
To think, just for an instant, of you alone will fulfil all hopes and desires.
For this, you have been praised by the victorious ones
As pre-eminent in the bestowal of wishes—O foremost heir,
Inseparable from the victorious, through praising you,
May you grant the excellent splendour of everything I wish for and desire!
May beings throughout the three worlds discover the strength of faith;
May they be guided by you, the powerful lord of the earth;
May the earth’s nourishing powers increase and happiness pervade the world;
And may we progress from stage to stage and reach the level that is supreme!