A Sādhana of Kurukullā from the Tidro Dharma Cycle Refuge and Bodhicitta Protective Sphere Descent of Blessings Blessing the Offering Substances Main Practice Invocation of the Wisdom Deities Request to be Seated Presenting the Offerings Short Praise Recitation Blessing the Tsok Tsok Offering Dedication of Merit Verse of Auspiciousness
Namo
Until achieving enlightenment
I turn for refuge to the myriad ḍākinī hosts,
And generate bodhicitta so as to place all those
Bound to the ocean of suffering, within stable bliss.
Hrīḥ. Whatever appears is the play of bliss-void,
Within which even the designation ‘impure obstacles’ is unknown.
Abiding within the luminous red expanse of appearance
The boundary of the immutable expanse of bliss is set.
Hrīḥ. From the pure fields of the places, lands and charnel grounds
Ḍākinīs, arisen from basic space gather here like dust motes;
And shower the supreme blessings, the inseparability of bliss and void,
Upon the body, speech and mind of the fortunate.
Oṃ kurukulle saparivāra aveśaya ja jaḥ pheṃ pheṃ tiṣtha lhan
Hrīḥ. The arrangement of sensory stimulants,
Fine clouds of offerings equaling the entirety of saṃsāra and nirvāṇa,
Pervade the immeasurable whole of existence and peace
And become objects which delight the gods
Vajra sapharaṇa kham
Ah. From within the primordially pure luminosity of all phenomena,
The utterly pure self-appearance, reality of the great bliss ḍākinī,
This awareness appears vividly as a red syllable Hrīḥ;
Radiating light, it accomplishes the dual benefit;
Retracting it transforms me into the mighty Kurukullā—
Embodiment of all the victors’ discriminative wisdom—clothed in the saṃbhogakāya attire.
I have one face; my hands hold a drawn utpala arrow set in an utpala bow;
And with my legs drawn out and stretched in, I frolic upon cushions of sun and lotus.
Myriad ḍākinīs, born from the fields, mantras and spontaneously born, surround me;
They adorn me, like dust motes in sunlight.
Hrīḥ. From Blazing Light—the palace of great bliss—
Ḍākinī and your entourage, as numerous as dust motes,
Come forth, unimpeded through the force of your compassion,
For the easily accomplish the magnetizing activities!
Vajra samaya ja
Hrīḥ. Assembly of Wisdom deities, self-arisen from basic space;
Come to the pledge-beings, established out of single concentration,
And, like water poured into water, become of one taste with them,
Indivisible and steadfast.
Tiṣṭha lhan
Hrīḥ. Within suchness dissolving into suchness
And the divine dissolving into the divine,
Fine clouds of offerings—pervading the entirety of space—are presented to you:
Please bestow the ability to magnetize the whole of saṃsāra and nirvāṇa.
Mahā pāja khāhi
Hrīḥ. Powerful mother, Kurukullā, discriminative wisdom arisen as a beauty;
As smooth and supple as a lotus petal, nevertheless, you pierce the three worlds;
Cunning, you use desire to blissfully lead the desirous to birth
As one of the four kinds of noble ones, 1 I praise you.
At my heart is a sun-disc, atop of which is the syllable Hrīḥ surrounded by a mantra garland.
Light radiates from them making offerings to the noble ones and cleansing others of their two obscurations,
Culminating with them all melting within great bliss’s luminous red expanse and then dissolving into me;
There through achieving the common and uncommon attainments.
Oṃ kurukulle hrīḥ svāhā
Hrīḥ. The letter É—the skull-cup of the basic space of great emptiness—within which
The letter Vaṃ—all phenomena of saṃsāra and nirvāṇa—are arranged as an offering,
And blessed as the immutable great bliss,
Becoming the offering clouds which delight the deities.
Hrīḥ. Outwardly: food and drink as the substance of samaya;
Inwardly: song and dance, the union of bliss and void;
And in secret: the empty awareness of the great perfection;
I offer them all! Please repair any breaches of samaya!
Ganacakra pūja khāhi
Through the force my fine actions committed throughout the three times,
As exemplified by this merit here;
May I achieve the state of the spontaneously born ḍākinī—the union of the two truths—
And lead all beings by means of the four activities.
Ho. The Vajra Queen’s citadel, adorned with the three gates of liberation, 2
Has put an end to the movement of dualistic thought;
With the play of the three secrets’ permanence, pervasiveness and spontaneity,
May virtue and goodness pervade the three realms!