Gateway for the Faithful A Supplication Recalling the Lives and Liberation of Kyabje Trulshik Rinpoche, Ngawang Chökyi Lodrö
Oṃ svasti
Clouds of compassion gather in the sky-like dharmadhātu,
To bring the delightful thunder and lightning of wisdom and love
And shower a timely rain of common and supreme accomplishments —
Precious guru, all-pervasive lord of every buddha family, I bow before you.
Dance-like form of all-pervasive, unchanging wisdom,
You appear with the signs and marks like the moon’s reflection in water;
Immutable sambhogakāya, perfect with the five certainties —
The source of all emanations, great Vairocana, to you I pray.
Your nature is the mighty Samantabhadra Vajradhara,
Yet you appear as the compiler of the great secret teachings,
Lauded by the oceanic Buddhas as if in a single voice —
Lord of Secrets, Vajradharma, to you I pray.
When you completed your service to Śākyamuni, Kinsman of the Sun,
Five hundred arhats laid down their robes to serve as your seat,
And with the words, ‘Thus have I heard’,
You began to compile the Buddha’s words — Ānanda, to you I pray.
When a volume of tantra fell onto the roof of your palace, a most marvellous sign,
You practiced its method of Vajrasattva,
Beheld the deity and realized the innermost meaning —
King Jaḥ, to you I pray.
Nāgārjuna entrusted you with the tradition of the Middle Way,
You whose birth was supreme and who mastered the three baskets,
Renowned as one of the Six Ornaments who beautify the world —
Āryadeva, to you I pray.
Accepted by Jalandhara, you accomplished Cakrasaṃvara,
Clarified the six treatises, were lauded by thousands of accomplished ones,
And brought the people of thirteen great lands to maturity and liberation —
Mahāsiddha Kṛṣṇācārya, to you I pray.
Great minister in the service of King Songtsen Gampo,
You invented the Tibetan script and paved the way for Tibet’s literary traditions,
You translated from the languages of India into Tibetan and thus became the original lotsāwa —
Tönmi Sambhoṭa, to you I pray.
Through the mantra practice of the glorious heruka Tobden Nakpo,
You gained the power to curse, crush and annihilate all negative forces
And to bring their entourages under your control —
Vidyādhara Śāntigarbha, to you I pray.
You upheld the Vinaya piṭaka of ethical discipline, the root of Buddha’s teaching;
Having lived nine hundred years, you served as royal chaplain to Tibet’s court,
And were renowned throughout India and Tibet for skilfully combining the views of Middle Way and Mind Only —
Great abbot Śāntarakṣita, to you I pray.
One of the first seven monastics of Tibet’s snowy land,
You followed twenty-one learned teachers and underwent fifty major hardships,
Becoming a translator and true scholar —
Master lotsāwa Vairotsana, to you I pray.
Yeshe Dorje, Padmasambhava’s regent, 1
Received a prophecy concerning this emanation in a pure vision
And issued a secret proclamation accordingly —
Nyak lotsāwa Jñānakumāra, to you I pray.
Having received instructions from Padmasambhava and Vimalamitra,
You practiced them and, as a sign of accomplishment, could pass through sold rock;
By liberating the evil king, you returned Tibet to happiness —
Lhalung Palgyi Dorje, to you I pray.
Through teaching and practice, you spread the Early Translation lineages of So, Zur and Nup,
The Sūtra, Illusory Web and Mind, 2
Throughout the cool and bountiful land of Tibet —
Zurchen Shakya Jungne, to you I pray.
Born into the Chim clan, you became a monk in Lumé Khenpo’s line, 3
And took from a pillar in the central temple at Samyé
The four medical tantras translated by Vairotsana —
Drapa Ngönshé Wangchuk Bar, to you I pray.
Mañjuśrī appearing in human form,
You excelled at grammar, logic, scripture and reasoning,
And were praised by Indian and Tibetan scholars and translators alike —
Rongzom Chökyi Zangpo, to you I pray.
You alone received the most profound, whispered Dharma
From the great realized scholar, Nāropa,
And brought benefit and happiness to the land of Nepal —
Pamting Jigme Drakpa, to you I pray.
Relying on many masters from India, Nepal and Tibet,
You achieved supreme accomplishment, becoming Saraha’s equal,
And through the common attainment of longevity, lived 150 years —
Learned and accomplished Khyungpo Naljor, to you I pray.
Majestically adorning the crowns of myriad scholars of India and Tibet,
You set out A Lamp for the Path by combining major works and pith-instructions,
And, as the sole ornament of the Buddha’s teaching, your fame spread throughout the three worlds —
Lord Atiśa Dīpaṃkara, to you I pray.
As the ḍākinī prophesied, you became the closest spiritual son
Of Lord Milarepa, the great forefather of all yogis in the Land of Snows,
And brought oral instructions from India’s noble land —
Rechung Dorje Drak, to you I pray.
You perfected and upheld the Vinaya collection,
Which is the inner treasure of the Buddha’s teaching,
And ordained many saffron-clad monks throughout the land —
Chadul Tsöndrü Bar, to you I pray.
A great paṇḍita throughout twenty-five consecutive lives,
Who, as the Treasury of Reasoning shows, excelled in exposition, debate and composition,
Crown adornment of all scholars in the Land of Snows —
Sakya Paṇḍita, to you I pray.
Holder of the life-force of the Nyingtik lineage,
The pith instructions from Vimalamitra’s tradition,
Especially the Dzogchen empowerment and instructions of Vajrasattva —
Drupchen Melong Dorje, to you I pray.
Having reached the far shore of ocean-like tenets, outer and inner,
You proclaimed the lion’s roar of the supreme vehicle,
And were renowned as Mañjuśrī incarnate throughout the cool lands of Tibet —
Longchenpa Drimé Özer, to you I pray.
Born into a family that followed the Early Translations,
You upheld the Kadam tradition and became a teacher to Lord Tsongkhapa,
And holder of the teachings of the oral lineage —
Lhodrak Lekyi Dorje, to you I pray.
Eminent amongst Jamgön Lobzang Drakpa’s disciples,
With perfect wisdom, you mastered hundreds of texts,
And among your marvellous deeds, established glorious Drepung —
Jamyang Tashi, to you I pray.
You adopted the guise of a disciplined holder of the Vinaya,
Yet with the confidence of your inner realization, pleased Pema Lingpa
And others blessed with the fortune of terma —
Dharma Lord, Shadeu Trulshik Kunga, to you I pray.
Master of the Six Branches connected with the Vajra Yoga,
And the instructions flowing like the Ganges from the Kalki kings,
Lord who mastered all classes of tantra —
Jonang Kunga Nyingpo (Tāranātha), to you I pray.
Born into the Nyö family, you taught the kama and terma ,
And caused the unbiased teachings of Buddha to spread,
Your life and liberation into the three kāyas inconceivable —
Terchen Gyurme Dorje, to you I pray.
As a youth, you encountered the fine Ganden tradition;
Later, you became a disciple of the omniscient Jigme Lingpa,
Mastering such feats of yogic conduct as reviving the dead —
Guyang Lodé Tsal, to you I pray.
Holder of the close lineage of the Golden Letter, quintessence of Atiyoga, pinnacle of vehicles,
And other profound treasure teachings, as the Lake-born Guru prophesied,
A heruka and master of the four means of liberation —
Kunzang Tongdrol Dorje, to you I pray.
When this most fortunate of eons draws to a close,
You will manifest as the thousandth buddha, Möpa Tayé,
And through the four means of gathering and boundless activity,
Bring saṃsāric existence to an end for all beings — to you I pray.
Also, at different times and in different places, according to beings’ temperament and capacity,
You appear in various ways, both pure and impure,
As spiritual guides bringing benefit to those in need —
To you who display these various emanations, I pray.
Now, in the lotus-grove of the entire Buddha’s teaching,
Disciples, like honeybees, enjoy their particular feasts,
But you in your devotion recognize the single taste of all —
Chökyi Lodrö, Kyabje Trulshik Rinpoche, to you I pray.
The imprints of your compassion blossomed from an early age,
And you yearned to leave everything behind and travel to lonely places,
Yet your kind masters recognized you as a sublime incarnation
And you heeded their advice — to you I pray.
You received the blessing of the wisdom-mind lineage of
Samantabhadra, the luminous vajra,
From the emanation of Yudra Nyingpo prophesied for this degenerate age,
With activity of secret body, speech and mind beyond limit —to you I pray.
You followed many spiritual guides and teachers,
Received teachings and transmissions of sūtra, tantra and quintessential instruction,
And took them all to heart, never neglecting your vows and commitments —
To you whose activity is pure, I pray.
In particular, you followed the two great treasure-revealers,
Who were none other than Padmasambhava and Vimalamitra in person,
And these veritable lords of the Dharma appointed you
Custodian of the Pema Tseyi Nyingtik and other cycles — to you I pray.
In sacred sites throughout India, Nepal, and Tibet,
You diligently studied, taught the sublime Dharma and made cloud-like offerings,
Entirely untainted by the eight worldly concerns —
To you who endured hardship with pure motivation, I pray!
You were not led astray by the demon of sensory pleasures,
Resources and honour did not come to you through effort in the three gatherings,
But you allocated funds solely to temples and enlightened representations, as well as other altruistic aims —
To you who offered all without the slightest grasping, I pray!
You saw that the pure life of a perfect saint
And the endless confusion of acting only for this life
Are equal within the natural dharmadhātu expanse —
To you who banished hope and fear, I pray!
In youth you became a monk dedicated to the teachings,
And avoided the distractions of an ordinary childhood;
Yet you didn’t think yourself superior or entertain worldly concerns,
But made only virtuous aspirations — to you, I pray!
‘It is difficult to bless others without first maturing oneself,
But anyone with faith shall receive inspiration’ —
Thus, according to these words of the Buddha and the ways of the past,
I pray with three-fold faith, pure vision and devotion!
Henceforth, until I and others attain the essence of enlightenment,
May you grant us blessings, so we may follow the perfect, authentic teacher,
Avoid the abyss of erroneous ways and false paths,
And set out upon the supreme path to omniscience!
May we develop a mind of renunciation for suffering and its origin,
The causes and results of saṃsāra that are so difficult to bear,
And always train in the most magnificent of paths,
Supreme bodhicitta with its four boundless qualities!
May we realize the view of the Great Middle Way beyond extremes,
Meditate upon the luminous Great Seal (Mahāmudrā) as the path,
Render evident the resultant state of the Great Perfection,
And enact the conduct that delights the buddhas and their heirs!
May the union of the two obscurations that shrouds beings in darkness
Be dispelled by the path of sun and moon, the union of sūtra and tantra,
To bring about the dependent arising of the union of the two kāyas,
So that the union of twofold benefit may blaze in perfect splendour!