The Recitation for the Gradual Path of the Preliminaries from The Exceedingly Secret, Enlightened Heart-Essence of the Ḍākinī Main Practice Taking Refuge Generation of the Mind Intent upon Supreme Enlightenment Maṇḍala Offering Purification of Obscurations Guru Yoga Visualization and Invitation Sevenfold Offering Single-Pointed Supplication Lineage Supplication Receiving the Four Empowerments
Emaho!
In the space before me, in the center of a tent of rainbow light,
On top of a lion throne, a lotus, sun, and moon,
Is the dark blue Lake-Born Guru in union with the consort.
They manifest clearly in bodies of light.
Namo!
The glorious embodiment of the Three Jewels, Three Roots, and Three Kāyas,
Is Vajradhara, the Stainless Teacher,
Inseparable from the nirmāṇakāya Lake-Born Guru.
Please care for me and bless my mind-stream!
Now I have obtained this precious and excellent human body with freedoms and favorable conditions,
Which is just like a wish-fulfilling jewel and rarely found,
As demonstrated through examples, numerical statistics, and signs.
Guru, help me not to drift onto mistaken paths!
Alas! Compounded phenomena are impermanent:
Over time fire and water destroy the environment,
And for sentient beings, birth, old age, sickness, and death arrive swiftly.
Guru, help me to generate disenchantment from deep within!
Help me to abandon the negativities of killing, stealing or robbing, sexual misconduct,
Lying, divisive speech, harsh words, senseless chatter, covetousness, ill will, and wrong views
And accomplish the ten virtues!
Guru, help me not to misunderstand causes and their results!
Hell-beings, hungry ghosts, animals, demi-gods,
Gods, and humans—those are the six classes of beings.
Regardless of the cyclic abode in which they are born, their suffering is unbearable.
Guru, help me to empty the depths of cyclic existence!
Obtaining this human body just once is tremendously fortunate.
Encountering the practices of The Enlightened Heart-Essence,
The essential path of the profoundly secret, unsurpassable Ati, is astonishing!
Guru, help me to traverse the paths and stages swiftly!
Supreme vajra master endowed with threefold kindness, 1
You have cared for me over many eons.
Having perfected the three services that are pleasing to you, 2
Guru, help me to realize the nature of your Wisdom Mind!
Be in it this life, the next, or in the intermediate state,
May I never be separate from you but become an emissary of your four enlightened activities.
Until cyclic existence has been emptied,
May I generate bodhicitta and fully accomplish beings’ aims!
I am the White Ḍākinī holding a curved knife and a skull-cup.
In the center of my body are the central, left, and right channels—dark blue, red, and white.
The winds of cognitive and emotional afflictions, karma, obscurations, sicknesses, provocations, and subtle mental impressions
Take the form of poisonous vapors which dissolve into the powerful foundation of the earth.
In my heart is Samantabhadra, and in the center of his heart is the life-force syllable ā .
Blessings in the form of dark blue light travel the pathways of the left and right channels,
And dissolve into the white a , filling my body with light.
In the space before me, in an expanse of densely arrayed rainbow light,
Is the embodiment of all sources of refuge—Vajradhara in union with the consort.
Their brilliant bodies blaze with light,
And they clearly appear along with their emanated retinues.
Buddha, Dharma, Saṃgha
Guru, Deva, Ḍākinī,
Dharmakāya, saṃbhogakāya, nirmāṇakāya
The embodiment of them all—the gracious guru,
I take refuge in you; hold me with your compassion!
Non-recognition, karma, afflictions, and suffering
Torment my parents, the beings who are as infinite as space in number.
So that they might swiftly attain the status of the guru,
I generate supreme aspirational, active, and absolute bodhicitta.
Oṃ āḥ hūṃ.
The Enduring three-thousandfold world system, 3 the riches of gods and humans,
My body, and the resources of all sentient beings are substances of this maṇḍala.
Internally, the aggregates, elements, channels, winds, and essences
Are all arranged as a fivefold pure realm and are offering clouds of sensual delights.
Secretly, the essence, nature, and dynamic expression of compassion,
The pure space of phenomena, the realm of the youthful vase body—
I offer them all to the maṇḍala of the guru, embodiment of all buddhas.
May all beings completely perfect the two accumulations!
On the crown of my head, upon a white lotus and a moon seat is Vajrasattva.
He is brilliant white, completely adorned with saṃbhogakāya ornaments, and in union with his consort.
A stream of nectar descends from the point of their union and enters the crown of my head.
The two obscurations, faults, downfalls, transgressions, delusions, degenerations, and defilements
Are all completely purified and permeate into the foundation of the earth.
The classes of obstructors are satisfied and the karmic debts of the six classes are repaid.
Uncontrived reflexive awareness is thatness.
From a state of compassion, reflexive awareness emerges as hūṃ.
The male and female essences rise and descend. [Light rays] emanate and are reabsorbed, purifying everything.
I am Vajrasattva, brilliant dark blue.
I hold a vajra and bell as I sit in a cross-legged posture.
Replete with saṃbhogakāya adornments, I blaze with light rays.
In the center of my heart is the syllable hūṃ,
Around which the mantra spins and projects rays of light,
Which make offerings to the victorious ones and purify the obscurations of beings.
Everything becomes the pure realm of the victorious ones.
oṃ āḥ vajrasattva hūṃ
Emaho!
Radiance of devotion for the guru and compassion for beings,
As if waking from a dream of impure and deluded appearances,
Shines forth and pervades the entire worldly environment,
Which is Akaniṣṭha with the immeasurable Palace of Lotus Light.
I am Vajrayoginī of great bliss
In the center of the perfectly arranged, ornamented and resplendent palace.
I am luminous red with one face, a peaceful smile, and I display a passionate countenance.
My right hand holds a curved knife at my hip;
My left hand offers a skull-cup of nectar into space.
My two legs dance in the posture of a playful heroine.
I blaze with youth and have ample breasts and a full bhaga .
My precious bone ornaments rattle and jingle.
My three eyes gaze with faith and devotion at my guru.
I stand poised upon a lotus, sun disc, and a corpse of non-conceptuality.
In a space filled with a swirling expanse of rainbow light imbued with blessings,
On a hundred-thousand-petaled lotus, sun, and moon,
Is the glorious embodiment of all the three-kāya victors,
The guru Vajradhara endowed with threefold kindness.
He is in the form of the Guru Buddha Tötrengtsal,
White in color and with a ruddy complexion.
His one face smiles serenely as he holds a sword in his right hand
And a bhāṇḍa filled with nectar in his left.
His hair is bound in a topknot, and he wears a tiger-skin skirt and bone ornaments.
His two legs are in the cross-legged posture of a bodhisattva as he emits rays of light.
The crook of his left arm is adorned with a khaṭvāṅga.
On the crown of his head is the lord of the family, the supreme hero Garab,
And on his crown is the teacher Vajrasattva.
In the surrounding area, gurus of the oral teachings, deities,
Ḍākinīs, and dharma protectors gather like billowing clouds.
Ho: From the space of phenomena, the fivefold pure abodes, and
The pure realms of emanations who tame beings,
The peaceful, amorous, and wrathful deities of the three enlightened bodies,
Out of your immense love and compassion, come to this place!
Dissolve into the root guru, the embodiment of all!
Confer blessings and empowerment upon me!
Grant the supreme and common accomplishments!
I and all sentient beings of the six types of transmigrations,
We emanate as many bodies as there are atoms and offer you prostrations.
We present offerings as vast as the offering clouds of [bodhisattva] Samantabhadra.
We confess misdeeds, downfalls, impairments, and breakages of our tantric observances.
We rejoice in the activities of the guru.
We beseech you to turn the wheel of the dharma of Ati.
We pray you remain here for the sake of sentient beings.
We dedicate this virtue for the benefit of sentient beings.
Alas! Venerable Guru Rinpoché,
We have wandered through the abodes of cyclic existence,
Tormented by the intensity of our karma, afflictions, and suffering—
Tightly bound in a noose of subject-object fixation;
We have no other hope but you!
With steadfast devotion,
We supplicate you from the core of our hearts.
With your wholly altruistic mind,
Kindly consider us with your great love and compassion.
With your immensely powerful and effective blessings
Bless our mind-streams;
May we realize your Wisdom Mind!
oṃ āḥ mahā guru ratna siddhi hūṃ
Emaho!
The essence of the youthful vase body is the mother who is great emptiness (Samantabhadrā),
The unceasing natural radiance arises as Samantabhadra,
The natural dynamic expression of compassion is Vajrasattva,
The supreme mother Prajñāpāramitā is the primordial wisdom ḍākinī, 7
I pray to you, bless my mind-stream!
Unchanging great bliss, Vajravārāhī,
The compiler of the teachings, the Lord of Secrets and Holder of the Vajra, [Vajrapāṇi],
The principal deity of the maṇḍala, the Blood-Drinking Heruka [Guru Rinpoché],
The supreme and secret consort, the bliss-bestowing princess [Mandāravā],
I pray to you, bless my mind-stream!
The ruler of the pure realms, the Feminine Lamp of Blissful Space,
The compilers of the teachings, the vajra tongues of the knowledge-holders,
Knowledge-holders of the supreme transmissions,
Assemblies of hundreds of thousands of primordial wisdom ḍākinīs,
I pray to you, bless my mind-stream!
In the borderlands of the red-faced people in the country of Tibet, the land of the sinpo , 8
There is the cycle of The Exceedingly Secret, Enlightened Heart-Essence of the Formless Ḍākinīs,
The decoder of their symbols, the knowledge-holder, Traktung Heruka [Do Khyentsé Yeshé Dorjé],
The custodian of the teachings, the companion, Passionate Protectress of All, [Losal Drölma], 9
I pray to you, bless my mind-stream!
Emanations of space and awareness, the two ḍākinī relations, 10
Fortunate vajra companions of the transmitted teachings who possess the karma,
Classes of oath-bound protectors of the teachings who carry out the commands,
Those who care for the teachings, the chief of the haughty ones along with your hosts,
I pray to you, bless my mind-stream!
Through the blessings of this single-pointed supplication
We, vajra brothers and sisters, who maintain our commitments
Have firmly established one-pointed fervent devotion to the guru and
Have naturally become disgusted with impermanent cyclic existence.
Inspire us to escape from the fetters of attachment and aversion!
In villages, cities, cremation grounds, at the foot of trees,
In forests and secluded areas, on islands, and under overhanging rocks,
Endeavor in practicing alone in undetermined places.
Through tantric observances, acting unpredictably as if mad,
May the channels, winds, and essences become pliable!
During the day, may I recognize appearances as enlightened bodies and primordial wisdom!
During the night, may I settle into the inner space of the brilliance of dream!
In the intermediate state, may the nail of the guru’s pith instructions hit home!
Having perfected the dynamic energy that results from Cutting Through and Leaping Over,
May I enter the womb, liberated into primordial space!
May all of us who have come together through our connections,
Liberate our unrealized, deluded clinging-fixation into its natural place,
Destroy acceptance and rejection of good and bad, joy and sorrow, and hope and fear,
Purify the stains of mental afflictions and subtle mental impressions,
And become disciples of The Exceedingly Secret, Enlightened Heart-Essence!
By being connected to the teaching through the karma of seeing, hearing, or recollecting it,
May all sentient beings, my very own parents, who pervade the whole of space,
Generate supreme emptiness-bodhicitta in their mind-streams!
In blissful realms or on the glorious mountain in Akaniṣṭha,
May we all actualize buddhahood and empty cyclic existence!
As a result of single-pointedly supplicating with devotion
White light emanates from the guru’s forehead and enters my crown;
Obscurations of the body and channels are purified, and the supreme vase empowerment is obtained.
Red light emanates from the guru’s mouth and dissolves into my throat,
Obscurations of speech and winds are purified, and the supreme secret empowerment is obtained.
Dark blue light emanates from the guru’s heart and dissolves into my heart,
Obscurations of the mind and essences are purified, and the supreme empowerment of primordial wisdom is obtained.
The white a-syllable emanates from the guru’s heart and descends into the center of my heart,
Obscurations of the all-base consciousness are purified, and the empowerment of the dynamic expression of awareness is obtained.
The four vajras are perfected, the four stages of knowledge-holders are attained,
And the resultant primordial wisdom of the four enlightened bodies is actualized.
With my own mind inseparable from the guru’s,
I rest nakedly in the innate and uncontrived state.
Emaho!
My body clearly appears like a body of rainbow light.
In its center, within my precious citta is a tent of light,
Where, upon a lotus, sun, and moon seat, is
Buddha Tötrengtsal complete with saṃbhogakāya attire.
Dark blue, he sits in equipoise in a cross-legged posture; he is marked by a golden vajra.
At his heart is a stainless white a-syllable, the color of the moon.
At the juncture of the three channels is the form of the short a in a sphere of red light.
The inside of the body of light is illuminated like a lamp.
Rest in a state of uncontrived, naked awareness. A.