An Aspiration Prayer for the Flourishing of the Jonang Teachings
Having perfectly meditated upon generating the enlightened mind for incalculable eons,
The incomparable sovereign of the Śākyas wisely brought down the rain
Of sublime teachings in order to fulfill the wishes of illimitable beings.
To you who protects beings through glorious virtue, I pay homage!
The intended meaning of the three successive Wheels of Dharma
Was explicated from multiple realizations derived from study and practice.
This is what distinguishes the one from the many gates of the Buddha's Dharma.
May the teachings of the Jonang flourish!
Amidst the vast lotus grove of the victor's teachings in the Land of Snow,
Hundreds of petals of Buddhist exposition and meditation systems bloomed.
Among them, the dynamic intent of the final Wheel of Dharma was revealed.
May the teachings of the Jonang flourish!
You uphold and transmit an unparalleled oral transmission,
A commentarial tradition distinct from other sūtras and tantras
On the great chariot tradition of the Kālacakra Tantra.
May the teachings of the Jonang flourish!
From Yumo Mikyö Dorje, through Dolpopa,
Kunga Drolchok, the protector Jetsun Tāranātha,
And successive masters, your lineage has gracefully disseminated.
May the teachings of the Jonang flourish!
The timelessly ultimate residing, stable, enduring
Enlightened essence is the indivisible ground and fruition.
This is the way elucidated in the Essence Sūtras and the meaning beheld by Nāgārjuna.
May the teachings of the Jonang flourish!
Your Middle Way zhentong view of the sūtras
And your practice of the Six Yogas which unfolds the meaning of the tantras
Are great traditions of explanation that activate the actual dimension of reality.
May the teachings of the Jonang flourish!
Through the great blessings of the sources of refuge, the victor and the victor's children,
Through the power of the unalterable ultimate nature of reality,
Through the force of divine virtue, and through our devotion,
May this aspiration prayer be fulfilled accordingly!