The Concise Mahāmudrā Preliminaries Arranged for Recitation Taking Refuge & Generating Bodhicitta Vajrasattva Purification Maṇḍala Offering Guru Yoga Pointing Out Instruction Dedication of Merit
Rare it is to become a human being,
Rare to obtain a human life.
Rare to encounter the sacred Dharma.
Rare for a Buddha to appear.
There’s no telling which will come first:
Tomorrow or the next life.
So instead of striving for tomorrow’s sake,
It would be better to work for the next life.
It is through virtue that one gains happiness;
It is through nonvirtue that suffering arises.
Thus, the fruits of virtuous and nonvirtuous
May be clearly demonstrated.
Seeing the tribulations of saṃsāra
Engenders a mind of disenchantment.
In terror of the prison of the three realms,
Strive with diligence to leave it behind.
In the centre of a lake in front of me
Is a wish-fulfilling tree with a trunk and five main branches.
On the central branch, upon a lion throne, lotus,
And sun and moon disc seats, is my own root guru,
Vajradhara, surrounded by the other Kagyü masters.
To the front are the yidam deities, to the right the Buddhas,
Behind is the sacred Dharma, and to the left the Saṅgha.
Below the throne are dharma protectors and guardians.
Each is surrounded by a vast, oceanic retinue of the same type.
On the meadows that surround the lake all my past mothers,
Who are as innumerable as space is vast, are gathered
To take refuge and generate bodhicitta single-pointedly.
From now until I reach the essence of enlightenment,
With a mind of inspiration, I take refuge
In the Guru, Buddha, Dharma and Saṅgha.
Just as the victorious buddhas of the past
Set their minds upon awakening, then carried out activity,
I too generate such an intention so as to benefit beings,
And shall carry out bodhisattva activity on a vast scale.
Now my life is fruitful; 2 I am the buddhas’ heir.
I invite devas, humans and all other beings
To the state of bliss—may you all rejoice!
Finally, the objects of refuge melt into light and dissolve into me.
At the crown of my head, upon a lotus and moon disc,
Is the guru Vajrasattva, with adornments and white,
With one face and two hands—the right hand holding a vajra
And the left a bell—and seated in cross-legged posture.
At his heart, upon a moon, is Hūṃ, surrounded by the mantra.
Through my prayers, a stream of nectar flows from his body,
Enters my brahma-aperture, and fills my entire body,
So that all misdeeds, obscurations, faults and downfalls are purified.
Oṃ vajra sattva hūṃ
Vajrasattva confirms the effectiveness of the practice.
He melts into light and dissolves into me, indivisibly.
The guru appears in the centre of the space before me.
Then, in front, to the right, behind, and to the left,
Appear the yidam deities, Buddhas, Dharma and Saṅgha,
Together with their retinues of similar type, while in between
There is an ocean of dharma protectors.
Before this sublime field of merit featuring the Three Jewels and the rest,
I form the mudrā of the maṇḍala with both my hands,
And offer this fine maṇḍala that is a source of delight.
May this prevent obstacles on the path to awakening,
Cause me to realize the wisdom mind of the sugatas of the three times,
And liberate beings beyond the extremes of existence and quiescence.
Through the offering of all that I and others possess,
May all beings fully perfect the two accumulations.
The field of merit melts into light and becomes one with me.
At the crown of my head, upon a lotus and moon-disc seat,
My root guru appears as the great Vajradhara,
With ornaments and the mudrā of crossed vajra and bell.
All the gurus of the lineage, presiding on vajra seats,
And an ocean of the Three Jewels gather in tiers like a crowd.
To the precious guru, I pray:
Inspire me to abandon this attitude of self-clinging.
Inspire me to develop renunciation in my being.
Inspire me to put an end to non-dharmic thoughts.
Inspire me to realize how my own mind is unborn.
Inspire me to pacify delusion in its own place.
Inspire me so that appearance and existence dawn as dharmakāya.
As a result of my offering of single-pointed devotion,
The retinues melt into light and dissolve into the central figure,
Who also then melts into light and dissolves into me.
Through the merging of enlightened form with my own body, I receive the vase empowerment.
Then, as enlightened speech, mind and wisdom
Merge with my own speech, mind and wisdom,
I receive the secret, knowledge-wisdom and fourth empowerments,
Through which any stains of my three doors are purified
And the seeds of the four kāyas are implanted within my mindstream.
Not in any realm of this world,
Nowhere else will Buddha be found.
This mind is the perfect Buddha.
Look directly into your own mind,
And by looking you will not see, for it has no reality.
Mind is the root of all saṃsāra and nirvāṇa.
Once it is realized, there is nothing to cultivate, so rest at ease.
How deluded to search outside for what is to be found within!
Without concern as to what is or is not, all is the genuine state.
Through the positivity and merit of this, may I swiftly
Attain the realization of Mahāmudrā, and thereby
Every single sentient being
Reach this state of perfection too.