The Unifying Practice of the Prayer 1 The Visualization Taking Refuge Generating Bodhicitta The Ten-Line Seven-Branch Offering 5 The Prayer The Mantra Recitation The Recitation Visualization
Ah! The environment and everything within it is a pure realm.
In the sky before me, in an expanse filled with rainbow light,
Amidst vast ocean-like clouds of offerings,
Resides Guru Vajradhara of Uḍḍiyāna,
Upon a lion throne and seats of lotus, sun and moon.
Reddish white in complexion, he shines with the splendor of the signs and marks.
He is magnificently attired in a secret gown, shirt,
Monastic robe, and dark-red brocade cloak.
Upon his head is the lotus crown, and his right hand brandishes a vajra,
While his left, in equanimity, holds
A skull-cup containing a long-life vase.
His legs are poised in royal ease,
And he cradles a khaṭvāṅga in his left arm.
Inside the conch mansion of the head
Of this supreme subduer of all existence
Resides Guru Dewa Chenpo, Guru of Great Bliss.
His two hands are in equipoise,
Holding a skull-cup filled with ambrosia, marked by the syllable baṃ .
His head is adorned with the long-flapped hat,
And he wears the secret gown, wide-sleeved robe,
And monastic robe, as he sits in vajra posture.
At Guru Vajradhara’s throat resides Tsokyé Dorjé, the Lake-Born Guru.
He smiles peacefully and has a reddish white complexion; he is graced by the signs and marks.
His two hands hold a vajra and an ambrosia-filled skull-cup.
His naked body is adorned with jewels, silks
And a garland of utpala flowers.
The secret consort Mandāravā embraces him.
She holds a knife 2 and a skull-cup.
At Guru Vajradhara’s heart, upon seats of lotus, sun and moon,
Is dark blue Dorjé Draktsal, Vajra Wrath,
Standing upon crossed male and female demons.
Wrathful and seductive, he displays the nine moods of dance.
He has one face, and his two hands hold a vajra and bell.
He wears the secret gown, a wide-sleeved robe, a garland of severed heads,
Snake bracelets, bone ornaments, elephant and
Human skins, and other hides too.
Revelling in the nine moods amidst this inferno
Is the supreme consort, Red Yoginī.
She holds a knife 3 and skull-cup, and, embracing her consort,
She stands with her right leg drawn and left leg extended.
These deities’ three places are marked by the three vajras,
And from them light shoots forth, inviting the wisdom deities.
Hūṃ! At the very beginning of this age,
In the north-west of the land of Uḍḍiyāna,
In the heart of a lotus flower,
Endowed with the most marvellous attainments,
You are renowned as the ‘Lotus-born’,
Surrounded by your retinue of many ḍākinīs
And oceanic hosts of vidyādharas and siddhas.
Following in your footsteps, I practise.
Come! Inspire us with your blessings—
Shower down your blessings on this supreme place!
Grant us, supreme practitioners, the four empowerments!
Remove any negativity, obstructing force or disturbance to our practice!
Grant us attainments, ordinary and supreme!
oṃ āḥ hūṃ vajra-guru-padma tötreng tsal vajra-samaya jaḥ | jaḥ hūṃ baṃ hoḥ |
Namo! Lama, in your perfect form, you embody all the sugatas;
Your very nature is that of the Three Jewels: Buddha, Dharma and Saṅgha.
Until enlightenment is fully realized,
We and all beings of the six realms take refuge in you.
We arouse the bodhicitta, the heart of the awakened mind, and, for the sake of all living beings,
When we have accomplished the enlightened state of the master,
We vow to liberate them all, through the enlightened actions
Of teaching each and every one according to their needs.
Approach now, gurus, devas, and ḍākinīs:
Take your seats on these cushions of lotus, sun and moon.
We offer homage, while devotion fills our body, speech and mind.
We make offerings, outer, inner and secret.
We confess all impairments and breakages of vows, all our harmful actions and obscurations.
We rejoice that the Secret Mantrayāna is being accomplished in practice.
We request you to turn the wheel of the secret mantra teachings, which ripen and liberate.
Remain with us without passing into nirvana, we pray.
We dedicate all merit so that sentient beings attain the essence of enlightenment.
May we all realize our true vajra nature!
Embodiment of buddhas of past, present and future, Guru Rinpoche;
Master of all siddhis, Guru of Great Bliss;
Dispeller of all obstacles, Wrathful Subjugator of Māras;
To you I pray: inspire me with your blessing,
So that outer, inner and secret obstacles are dispelled
And all my aspirations are spontaneously fulfilled.
oṃ āḥ hūṃ vajra-guru-padma tötreng tsal deva-ḍākini vajra-samaya jaḥ siddhi-phala hūṃ
oṃ āḥ hūṃ vajra-guru-padma siddhi hūṃ
From Dewa Chenpo within Guru Vajradhara’s head
Flows the ambrosia of bodhicitta
Down through the bodies of Tsokyé Dorjé and consort,
Then further to fill Drakpo Tsal;
They glow with passion.
This melting bliss of bodhicitta-ambrosia flows further down
As a white nectar, glowing with a red hue.
It pours into my body and saturates my channels,
My obscurations are purified, and I gain empowerment and siddhis.
Guru Vajradhara is filled with great delight
And enters my body through the brahmā aperture.
My body transforms into the celestial palace,
As he joyfully takes residence within a jeweled orb of light
At the very centre of my heart.
At the heart of Drakpo, upon a lotus and sun disc,
There is a five-pronged golden vajra.
The blue hūṃ at its center shines forth from its brilliance
Mantra garlands, spontaneously resounding,
Which make offerings to the Victors and gather their blessings.
The environment and all beings are perfected as the maṇḍala of the Vidyādhara Guru.