A Prayer to Lady Yeshe Tsogyal, the Mother
To Lady Tsogyal, the mother, I pray.
Venerable Vajrayoginī, inspire me with your blessings!
To the one and only gracious mother, I pray.
Yeshe Tsogyal of great bliss, inspire me with your blessings!
To Vajrayoginī, mother of the victorious ones, I pray.
Wisdom ḍākinī, Queen of Space, inspire me with your blessings!
To the venerable Vajravārāhī, I pray.
Venerable Ārya Tārā, inspire me with your blessings!
Essence of all the buddhas of past, present and future,
Emanation of the five consorts of basic space,
Tsogyal, noble lady of Kharchen,
Emanation of the exalted Sarasvatī,
To you I pray!
Queen of a hundred thousand ḍākinīs,
Spiritual consort of the Guru,
Compiler of the great secret teachings,
Mother who protects the land of Tibet,
One and only gracious mother, to you I pray!
May the appearance of your form that tames as appropriate
Inspire me with blessings!
May the network of my impure channels
Mature as the pure vajra kāyā,
And may I become inseparable from you!
May the wind energies that move to and fro
Merge within the space of the avadhūti 1
As the supreme speech of the indestructible nāda .
And may the noble lady bring me to maturity as her own form
With its melodious vajra voice.
May the accumulation of transferring essences
Ripen as the indomitable kāya of great bliss.
And may I be brought directly to maturity
As the unobstructed dharmakāya.
May the subtle obscurations of the universal ground,
The movements of karmic winds and vital energies,
Be bound, supremely immovable,
Within immaculate vajra space,
And thus may I reach maturity as the svabhāvikakāya
Who spontaneously accomplishes the twofold benefit.
Queen of knowledge-holding ḍākinīs
And glorious heruka Supreme Bliss— 2
May your illusory play of bliss and emptiness
Pervade everywhere throughout the three worlds,
And your infinite emanations
Accomplish the twofold benefit of beings
For as long as space itself endures.
To this end, compassionate mother,
Look upon me benevolently
With your lightning-like love and wisdom,
And inspire this fortunate practitioner
To attain deathlessness within this very lifetime.
Great mother, inspire me with your blessings.
One and only gracious mother, care for me!