Concise Preliminaries Visualisation of the Field of Merit Taking Refuge Arousing Bodhicitta Visualisation and Recitation of Vajrasattva Field of Merit for the Maṇḍala Offering Maṇḍala Offering Guru Yoga Dedication and Aspiration
Namo guru!
The freedoms and advantages are hard to find, and death comes quickly;
Actions have their effects, and saṃsāra its trials—on these, I shall reflect.
Those who protect us from the sufferings of saṃsāra and the lower realms—
The deities who are the objects of refuge fill the whole of space.
In the guru and the Three Jewels, I take refuge.
I generate love, compassion and the mind of bodhicitta!
The sources of refuge melt into light and dissolve into me.
And my own body becomes a mass of glowing radiant light.
Vajrasattva appears at my crown, and from his body there flows a stream of nectar
To purify my illnesses, harmful influences, negative actions and obscurations.
Vajrasattva melts into light and dissolves into me.
And my own body becomes a mass of glowing radiant light.
Those who cause blessings and accomplishments to fall like rain,
The deities of the field of merit, fill the whole of space.
This maṇḍala of actual riches and those created by the mind, I offer!
Accept it, and grant your blessings and accomplishments, I pray!
The deities of the field of merit melt into light and dissolve into me.
And my own body becomes a mass of glowing radiant light.
At the crown of my head, on a lion throne, a lotus and a moon-disc seat,
Presides the guru in the form of mighty Vajradhara.
Root teacher, the embodiment of all sources of refuge,
I pray to you: inspire me with your blessings!
The guru, through samādhi, grants the four empowerments,
Melts into light and dissolves into me.
The guru's wisdom mind and my own mind merge as one.
And I rest in an experience of dharmakāya, the emptiness and clarity of the nature of mind.
Through virtuous actions such as this, may I realise the dharmakāya,
And, through the two kāyas with form, act for the welfare of beings.