Essence of the Profound Path A General Visualization for Prayers to Guru Rinpoche 1. Taking Refuge 2. Arousing the Awakened Mind of Bodhicitta 3. The Seven-Branch Offering 4. The Main Visualization 5. Empowerment and Dissolution 6. Dedication of Merit
Namo! Lama, in your perfect form, you embody all the sugatas;
Your very nature is that of the Three Jewels: Buddha, Dharma and Saṅgha.
Until enlightenment is fully realized,
We and all beings of the six realms take refuge in you.
We arouse the bodhicitta, the heart of the awakened mind, and, for the sake of all living beings,
When we have accomplished the enlightened state of the master,
We vow to liberate them all, through the enlightened actions
Of teaching each and every one according to their needs.
Approach now, gurus, devas, and ḍākinīs:
Take your seats on these cushions of lotus, sun and moon.
We offer homage, while devotion fills our body, speech and mind.
We make offerings, outer, inner and secret.
We confess all impairments and breakages of vows, all our harmful actions and obscurations.
We rejoice that the Secret Mantrayāna is being accomplished in practice.
We request you to turn the wheel of the secret mantra teachings, which ripen and liberate.
Remain with us without passing into nirvana, we pray.
We dedicate all merit so that sentient beings attain the essence of enlightenment.
May we all realize our true vajra nature!
Before us in the sky, in a shimmering sphere of light, white and blue, yellow, red and green,
Floats a throne held aloft by lions, with cushions of lotus, sun and moon.
There you preside, the actual presence of all the buddhas of the three kāyas,
Root master, in the form of the Lotus-born Guru.
Your complexion is white, tinged with red, your expression slightly wrathful,
Wearing the lotus hat, gown, and Dharma robes, with
A magnificent dark red cape of shining brocade.
Your right hand holds a five-pointed vajra;
Your left a skull cup containing the vase of long life.
A khaṭvāṅga cradled in your left arm,
You are seated in the vajra posture.
From the maṇḍalas of your wisdom body, speech and mind
Appear infinite gurus, devas, ḍākinīs and dharmapālas;
All send out and gather back brilliant, dazzling light,
And all become actually present, here.
From the three syllables oṃ āḥ hūṃ at the three centres of the master,
Rays of light burst out, one after another, and then all together.
Streaming into our three centres, where they dissolve,
Granting us the four empowerments, purifying our four obscurations, and
Making us a suitable vessel to practise the four paths.
Finally, the master dissolves into us, merging inseparably,
And in that state, we gaze into our original face: the dharmakāya, beyond the ordinary mind.
Through the positivity and merit of this, may I swiftly
Accomplish the realization of the master of Orgyen, and so
May I bring each and every single living being
To that perfect state as well!