The Swift Steed of Garuḍa, King of Birds 1 An Instruction for Travelling to Sukhāvatī, Based on the Visualization and Recitation of Uṣnīṣa-Sitātapatrā
namaḥ śākyamunaye
Āḥ, phenomena are emptiness, beyond words, beyond thought and description.
A white umbrella marked with oṃ arises and
From it, instantaneously perfected through mere recollection, Samaya- and jñānasattva indivisible,
I appear as Vajroṣṇīṣā, the Great Dispeller, with a thousand heads —
In front, two hundred white, mesmerizing, beautiful,
To the right, two hundred gold, fearsomely laughing,
At the back, two hundred red, furiously raging,
To the left, two hundred green, compassionately gazing,
On top, two hundred blue, wrathful, ferocious.
Each has three eyes and is marked with a vajra.
I am white in colour, with a trillion 4 eyes
Sending side-long glances, wide open and awake, voracious and electric.
My five hundred right and five hundred left arms
All wield blazing swords that cut through thoughts.
My five hundred right legs stretch out, extended, Stomping beneath them all that is frightening.
My five hundred left legs are drawn in, contracted, Stomping beneath them all obstructors.
From my head hang silken garlands adorned by seventy million buddhas.
My crown knot is adorned by seven spinning parasols, on top of one another.
The hairs of my body blaze with the light of primordial wisdom.
My garments are bedecked with ornaments, peaceful and wrathful.
In my forehead resides Vairocana, in his heart the white syllable oṃ .
In my throat resides Amitābha, in his heart the red syllable āḥ .
In my heart resides Vajrasattva, in his heart the blue syllable hūṃ .
At my heart centre, upon a moon disc, is an oṃ with surrounding mantra, The syllables all in white,
And from the mantra garland streams a radiance of light, Clearing all obscurations and enhancing power and strength.
My upper teeth are the ten male wrathful ones and my lower teeth the female ten.
A blazing mass of fire curls around my mouth. My tongue is a sword, razor sharp.
In my throat reside the sun and moon.
The blazing inferno of my body Burns to ash all harm-doers and obstacle-makers.
Hūṃ, Vajroṣṇīṣā, Great Dispeller,
Great goddess with a thousand arms,
Great goddess with a thousand heads,
Great goddess with a trillion eyes,
With blazing indestructible vajra-characteristics,
Great Exalted Vajra, ruler of the maṇḍala of the three plains of existence— 5
I pray to you, protect our families, our friends, wealth and possessions, Both day and night!
tadyathā | oṃ anale anale | viṣade viṣade | vaire vaire | vajradhari | bandha bandhani | vajrapāṇi phaṭ hūṃ hūṃ phaṭ phaṭ svāhā | hūṃ drūṃ bandha phaṭ | mama rakṣa rakṣa svāhā |
As for all oppression and binding forces of body, speech and mind Both my own and those of all who need protection, Break them, break them! Stop them, stop them! Drive away all oppressive, binding, chaining forces! sarva apanaya svāhā! Pacify them utterly! śāntiṅ-kuruye svāhā!
oṃ sarvatathāgatoṣṇīṣa hūṃ phaṭ | hūṃ ma ma hūṃ ni svāhā |
oṃ ma ma hūṃ ni svāhā |
Through the merit of this meditation and recitation,
As soon as we have discarded this unclean body,
May we miraculously take birth in Sukhāvatī, realm of great bliss.
As soon as we are born there, having traversed the bhūmis,
May we send our emanations in all directions, to benefit beings.