Great Drum of the Devas A Prayer to the Dharma King Tri Songdetsen
Oṃ svasti!
Through the drum of the renowned Three Jewels,
The most perfectly sublime among all that is auspicious,
Let joy and wellbeing reign throughout the whole of space and time,
And the uḍumbara of virtue and excellence herald bounteous fortune!
Divine heir to the dharma kings of the supreme Śākya line,
Youthful Mañjuśrī in whom an affinity for Mahāyāna was awakened,
You who came to the land of Tibet as a guardian of the teachings and beings,
Tri Songdeutsen, at your feet I pray.
With great difficulty and hardship, you invited translators and scholars,
Supervised the construction of a temple and established a basis for the teachings.
You fostered the ten virtues and arranged for the translation of sūtra and mantra—
Tsangpa Lhayi Metok, to you I pray. 1
You transformed the land of Tibet from an island of darkness to a beacon of light,
And received from Guru Padmasambhava in particular
A vast ocean of Secret Mantra, including the Eight Commands— 2
Great prevailer over appearance and existence, to you I pray.
In your perfect wisdom, you are indivisible from Mañjughoṣa,
In your great love, you are none other than noble Padmapāṇi,
And in your power, you are the mighty vajra-wielding Lord of Secrets—
Sovereign manifestation of the three buddha families, to you I pray.
Your heirs, infused with the blessings of your three secrets,
Including the five successive emanations of the Dharma king,
Have appeared and will continue to appear throughout the land—
Master of emanation and absorption, to you I pray.
Even now, during these increasingly degenerate times,
The fact that the teachings endure is due to your kindness.
Without ever losing sight of this and with firm conviction,
I pray to you, confidently and from the depths of my heart.
May I incite the strength of your great compassion
So as to overcome the dark forces of Māra’s legions,
And may I and others swiftly fulfil the noble aspirations
Formed by the abbot, the master and you, the Dharma king!
May all be auspicious so that throughout the course of all my lives,
I may be cared for by you, the Mañjughoṣa Dharmarāja,
Acquire your wisdom, capacity and love, spontaneously accomplish my own and others’ aims,
And ultimately attain awakening inseparably from you!