Thunderous Melody In Praise of the Omniscient Gorampa Sonam Senge
Namo guru sarvajñā-punye-siṃhāya
Holder of the treasury of the sugatas’ teachings,
Great mine of wisdom, splendid in eightfold mastery,
Magnificent and incomparable lion of speech—
In utmost inspiration and devotion, I praise you!
Throughout the course of oceanic aeons, you travelled to the distant shore
Of enlightened action, dispelled the darkness of the two obscurations,
And gained the radiant splendour of the qualities of realization.
You who are inseparable from Mañjuśrī,
Beginning in your youth, you perfected all the qualities,
And, entering the ranks of the learned, developed Dharma’s strength.
Captivating with your adornments of scripture and reasoning,
You mastered an abundance of texts from the three collections,
And became a scholar of vast learning and universal knowledge.
Inseparable from Acala, king of the wrathful,
You brandished the sword of Mañjughoṣa,
Filling the entire expanse of space with light.
You received the buddhas’ prophecy and became a heart-son
Of the one named Kunga, 1 and then you sat upon the Evaṃ throne. 2
Your great dharma centre of Tubten Namgyal 3
Was a wonder to rival the heavenly palace of the three great devas,
A place where vast crowds of learned scholars thronged.
Upholder of the discipline of the second Lord of Sages,
When the approach and exegesis of the Sakya patriarchs
Had become sullied by assorted opinions and assertions,
You alone functioned as a cleansing jewel to bring purity.
An offering pillar of the teachings, pre-eminent in existence and peace.
When your own and others’ sides were unsettled
By incomprehension, misunderstanding and partial knowledge,
You brought clarity through your gem-like wisdom and analysis,
And the light of genuine understanding shone.
The jewel-casket of your superb explanations of sūtra and mantra
Is a heart treasure of the learned in this degenerate age.
You were cared for by the guru Mañjughoṣa,
And gained accomplishment through generation and completion of the yidam deity.
You attracted ḍākinīs and dharmapālas, who gathered like bees in a lotus garden,
And became your constant companions.
Learned—you were supreme among the learned, Gorampa,
Dignified—you were exalted with the splendour of dignity,
Noble—your noble activity spread in a hundred directions—
To the one renowned as omniscient Sonam Senge, I offer praise!
Through the force of these, my prayers to you,
May I perfect the great strength of intellectual confidence and fearlessness,
And may the light of twofold wisdom blaze,
Unimpeded in realization of the profound and vast!