The Secret Practice of the Great Compassionate One, Natural Liberation of Suffering from the Heart-Essence of the Vast Expanse 1. Preliminaries 1.Taking Refuge 2. Arousing Bodhicitta 3. Seven-Branch Offering 4. Offering the Torma to Obstructing Forces 5. The Protection Circle 6. Descent of Blessings 7. Blessing the Offering Substances 2. The Main Section 1. Generating the Palace and the Deity 2. Invitation 3. Requesting the Deities to be Seated 4. Prostration 5. Offerings 6. Special Offerings 7. Offering Praise 8. Mantra Recitation In Particular, for Long-life Practice For Overcoming Obstacles and Increasing Merit For Magnetizing the Entire Three Realms For Filling the Treasury with Wealth
Namo lokeśvarāya!
Namo. In this never-ending cycle of saṃsāra, which is by nature suffering,
I and all other beings helplessly roam about.
From the depths of my heart and with utmost longing
I take refuge in the embodiment of the Three Jewels—the supremely noble Lord of Compassion.
Hoḥ. All sentient beings of the six classes—my very own parents—the objects of my compassion,
Do not recognize the nature of their minds and act out of delusion.
So that, with immeasurable compassion, I might set beings on the path to awakening,
I arouse the supreme mind of bodhicitta, relative—in aspiration and action—and absolute.
Hoḥ. To all sources of refuge throughout the three times,
In devotion, I pay homage, and make outer and inner offerings;
I openly acknowledge and confess non-virtuous deeds and negative actions;
And rejoice in all that is virtuous; I urge you to turn the wheel of Dharma,
And request you to remain here; I dedicate all roots of virtue to enlightenment.
May all beings attain the level of the Noble One!
oṃ āḥ hūṃ
Hrīḥ. I am in the form of the Mighty Lotus,
The great destroyer of all those who lead us astray.
Obstructing forces and misleading spirits, listen!
Accept this torma offering of sensual delights,
And be gone to the distant shore of the great ocean!
If you dare disobey this command
You will be annihilated—crushed beneath the vajra hammer.
Therefore do not disobey this command!
Hrīḥ. Appearance and existence is the vajra tent,
Beings and the environment have the nature of the three maṇḍalas.
Against all those demons and obstructing forces of confused habitual tendencies
I set the boundary from within the state of the three kāyas.
vajra rakṣa rakṣa jvala hūṃ phaṭ
Hūṃ. From the basic space of emptiness, the radiance of compassion’s play
Arises unceasingly, like clouds gathering in the sky.
All the relative substances with characteristics are blessed
And transform into the great maṇḍala of original purity.
oṃ jñāna-vajrābhiṣaya peṃ peṃ sarva-samāja jaḥ
Oṃ āḥ hūṃ. All outer, inner, and secret offerings
Appear as substances, yet are in nature wisdom.
This great ambrosia contains the glory of a hundred tastes
And so becomes the most exquisite offering that delights the deities of the maṇḍala.
oṃ vajra-arghaṃ pādyaṃ puṣpe dhūpe āloke gandhe naivedye śabda
sarva-pañca rakta baliṅta mahā-sukha pūjā āḥ hūṃ
Hrīḥ. From within the state without ground or basis, where all phenomena are free of conceptual reference,
The union of basic space and awareness arises as the realm of great purity.
My entire perception, spontaneously perfect, is the Potala Mountain
With symbols, signs, and characteristics perfect within the maṇḍala. In its centre
Is a multi-coloured, thousand-petalled lotus, and sun- and moon-disk seats.
From hrīḥ, I arise as the Noble One, the deity of compassion,
In the form of Lord Avalokiteśvara ‘Natural Liberation of Suffering’,
With one face and four hands and standing in a posture of equanimity.
The palms of my main two hands are joined at my heart
And the remaining two hold a mālā and lotus.
I am in saṃbhogakāya form adorned with silks and jewels.
My complexion is white tinged with red, and I’m adorned with bone ornaments,
The nine peaceful expressions and the thirteen ornaments.
Above my head is Amitābha, lord of the family.
In the four cardinal directions, and each seated on a four-petalled lotus, are:
Venerable Tārā in the east, her body white in colour,
Mārīcī in the south, yellow in colour,
Kurukullā in the west, ruby red in colour,
And Vasudhārā in the north, green in colour.
Their ornaments and garments are perfectly complete, each in their own respective style.
At the four doors are the four mighty ones in colours that match their particular activities.
All are in striding posture, majestic and terrifying, and hold hooked knives and skull-cups.
With wrathful ornaments, they are poised imposingly amidst masses of flame.
In between, buddhas, bodhisattvas, vidyādharas,
Heroic ones, 3 ḍākinīs and samaya-bound Dharma protectors gather like clouds.
They arise as appearance and emptiness, vividly present in unobscured space.
The deities' three centres are marked with the three seed syllables,
From which light streams out to the natural, supreme abodes,
And especially to the nirmāṇakāya pure land of Potala,
The twenty-four sacred places and the eight charnel grounds,
Inviting the wisdom deities. Vajra-samājaḥ!
Hrīḥ. From the Mighty Palace of Great Bliss in the West,
Protector Amitābha, please come!
From the emanated pure realm of Mount Potala,
Mighty Avalokiteśvara, Tamer of Beings, please come!
From the palace of the compassionate tamer of beings,
Deities of the maṇḍala, all of you, please come!
Grant us, the practitioners, your blessings!
Grant us ordinary and supreme accomplishments! 4
oṃ lokeśvara-guru-deva-ḍākinī-sarva-samaya jaḥ jaḥ
Hrīḥ. For the deities of the maṇḍala beyond reference—naturally liberating and compassionate—
There is no coming, arriving, or remaining.
Yet to purify the adventitious stains of duality,
Please remain here firmly, samaya-being and wisdom-being inseparable.
vajra-samaya tiṣṭha hoḥ
Hrīḥ. Knowing that the blessed Compassionate One and the hosts of deities
Are oneself, free from confusion I prostrate symbolically.
From within a state free from acceptance or rejection,
Like the manifestations of the great gods of Enjoying Emanation, 5 I prostrate!
namo puruṣāya hoḥ
Hrīḥ. Samantabhadra’s display of offering clouds
Of flowers, incense, lights, scented water,
Food, and music—the ﬁve sensual delights—
And the riches of gods and humans: all of this I offer. Please accept!
oṃ vajra-arghaṃ pādyaṃ puṣpe dhūpe āloke gandhe naivedye śabda | rūpa śabda gandha rāsa sparśa mahā sarva pūja khāhi
Hrīḥ. The superior, wondrous substances of great bliss—
Ambrosia, torma, rakta, and feast-offerings—so joyful,
The wisdom consort, and that which is beyond mind, the genuine nature—
All this I offer. Please accept, and grant us empowerment and accomplishment!
sarva-pañca rakta baliṅta mahā-sukha dharmadhātu pūjā hoḥ
Hrīḥ. From the palace of basic space beyond elaboration, you arise
With mastery over the spontaneously present saṃbhogakāya.
Avalokiteśvara, great treasure of boundless compassion,
In your form as Natural Liberation of Suffering―to you I offer praise and homage.
With the four immeasurables, you guide all beings on the path of liberation.
With the dance of your compassion, you tame each according to their needs.
You possess the power to miraculously transform in various forms.
Ladies of the four families—to you I offer praise and homage!
With your mastery of all four enlightened activities
And your display of wrathful fury that subdues misleading forces,
You manifest without hindrance. Hayagrīvas of the four families
And the entire maṇḍala of deities―to you I offer praise and homage!
I am the Great Compassionate One. In my heart
In the middle of a vast casket of conjoined sun and moon,
Upon a moon disc is the white life-force syllable hrīḥ,
Encircled by the seven syllables of the mantra.
Light radiates out to all the buddhas and bodhisattvas,
Especially the Great Compassionate One, and invokes their wisdom minds.
Light streams out to all six classes of beings, purifying their karma and destructive emotions.
The rays return and dissolve into me,
Through which I obtain accomplishments, ordinary and supreme.
oṃ maṇi padme hūṃ hrīḥ
From the Noble One’s heart light streams out,
Invoking the heart and mind of Venerable Tārā.
The vital essence of the elements, animate and inanimate,
Life-spirit and life-force—whatever has been dissipated—is summoned back
And dissolves into the beneficiary of the practice, who is visualized
In the heart of the main deity, extending their life.
oṃ maṇi padme hūṃ hrīḥ | tāre ayur-jñāna tshe bhrūṃ nṛ ja svāhā
From the Noble One’s heart light streams out,
Invoking the heart and mind of Mārīcī.
The lustre, radiance, and vitality of misleading spirits
Is drawn in, like water through a pipe, and dissolves into me,
Granting me the majestic brilliance of the sun and moon.
oṃ maṇi padme hūṃ hrīḥ | ārya-mārīcyai māṃ svāhā
From the Noble One’s heart light streams out,
Invoking the heart and mind of Kurukullā.
All the vital essence of the animate and inanimate,
And in particular the life, merit, and power of the objects of our focus,
Is completely gathered in the form of red light,
And dissolves into me, causing me to blaze with majestic brilliance.
oṃ maṇi padme hūṃ hrīḥ | kurukulle hrīṃ hrīṃ vaśaṃ kuruye svāhā
From the Noble One’s heart light streams out,
Invoking the heart and mind of Vasudhārā.
All the wealth of the gods, nāgas, ṛṣis, and human beings
Is summoned with light-rays in the form of hooks
And bestowed upon me.
oṃ maṇi padme hūṃ hrīḥ | mama vasudhāri svāhā