The Special Teaching of the Wise and Glorious King 1. Introducing directly the face of rigpa in itself 2. Deciding upon one thing, and one thing only 3. Confidence directly in the liberation of rising thoughts 4. Colophon
Homage to the master!
The view is Longchen Rabjam: infinite, vast expanse.
Meditation is Khyentse Özer: rays of wisdom and love.
Action is Gyalwé Nyugu, that of the bodhisattvas.
One who practises in such a way,
May well attain enlightenment in this very life.
And even if not, what happiness! What joy! A la la!
As for the view, Longchen Rabjam,
Three statements strike the vital point.
First, relax and release your mind,
Neither scattered, nor concentrated, without thoughts.
While resting in this even state, at ease,
Suddenly let out a mind-shattering ‘phat!’,
Fierce, forceful and abrupt. Amazing!
There is nothing there: transfixed in wonder,
Struck by wonder, and yet all is transparent and clear.
Fresh, pure and sudden, so beyond description:
Recognize this as the pure awareness of dharmakāya.
The first vital point is:  introducing directly the face of rigpa in itself.
Then, whether in a state of movement or stillness,
Of anger or attachment, happiness or sorrow,
All the time, in any situation,
Recognize that dharmakāya you recognized before,
And mother and child clear light, already acquainted, will reunite.
Rest in the aspect of awareness, beyond all description.
Stillness and bliss, clarity and thinking: disrupt them, again and again,
Suddenly striking with the syllable of skilful means and wisdom.
With no difference between meditation and post-meditation,
No division between sessions and breaks,
Always remain in this indivisible state.
But, until stability is attained,
It is vital to meditate, away from all distractions and busyness,
Dividing the practice into proper meditation sessions.
All the time, in any situation,
Abide by the flow of what is just dharmakāya.
Decide with absolute conviction that there is nothing other than this—
The second vital point is: deciding upon one thing, and one thing only.
At that point, whether attachment or aversion, happiness or sorrow—
All momentary thoughts, each and every one,
Upon recognition, leave not a trace behind.
For recognize the dharmakāya in which they are freed,
And just as writing vanishes on water,
Arising and liberation become natural and continuous.
And whatever arises is food for the bare rigpa emptiness,
Whatever stirs in the mind is the inner power of the dharmakāya king,
Leaving no trace, and innately pure. What joy!
The way things arise may be the same as before,
But the difference lies in the way they are liberated: that’s the key.
Without this, meditation is but the path of delusion,
With it, even without meditating, there’s the state of dharmakāya—
The third vital point is: confidence directly in the liberation of rising thoughts.
For the View which has the three vital points,
Meditation, the union of wisdom and love,
Is accompanied by the Action common to all the bodhisattvas.
Were all the buddhas to confer,
No instruction would they find greater than this,
Brought out as a treasure from the depth of transcendental insight,
By the tertön of dharmakāya, the inner power of rigpa,
Nothing like ordinary treasures of earth and stone,
For it is the final testament of Garab Dorje,
The essence of the wisdom mind of the three transmissions.
It is entrusted to my heart disciples, sealed to be secret.
It is profound in meaning, my heart’s words.
It is the words of my heart, the crucial key point.
This crucial point: never hold it cheap.
Never let this instruction slip away from you.
This is the special teaching of the wise and glorious king.