The Single Mind Kīla Practice, Part of the 'Neck-Pouch Dagger’ (Purba Gulkhukma) Cycle 1. Empowerment 2. Stage of Sādhana 3. Stage of Gaṇacakra Offering
Kyé! So that through the conduct of skilful means for beings' benefit,
For those to be trained through loving kindness and compassion,
The buddhas' enlightened activity may be brought to completion,
Please bestow your blessings and confer the empowerment!
The samaya of liberating through compassion
Involves neither killing nor suppressing.
So that the aggregates may be transformed into vajra,
I shall ripen you, the fortunate one!
In the deity of my own awareness, I take refuge.
To liberate all beings, I generate bodhicitta.
The commitment to accomplish the great and glorious heruka,
I shall never forsake, even at the cost of my life.
Samaya narakan!
Hūṃ. To accomplish the kīla of existence
And receive empowerment and accomplishment,
Come now, you of wisdom wrath, I pray:
And, having come,
Show the signs and marks of accomplishment
And cause the blessings of Kīlaya to shower down!
Oṃ vajra kīli kīlaya sapārivāra vajra samaya ja ja abheshaya pheṃ pheṃ  tiṣṭha vajra
Hūṃ. On the basis of the symbolic material kīla,
The deity kīla of the generation stage is vivid, pure and stable,
There is mastery over the bodhicitta kīla of the perfection stage,
And the awareness-kīla of awareness penetrates the hollow life-force of saṃsāra and nirvāṇa—
Thus may you receive the empowerment of the enlightened body, speech and mind of the great and glorious heruka!
Oṃ vajra kīla kīlaya kāya vāk citta sarva abhiṣiñca hūṃ!
Out of the state of emptiness, in an instant I appear
As the great and glorious Vajrakumāra, king of the wrathful—
Dark blue, with one face and two hands rolling a kīla,
Adorned with the heruka and charnel ground accoutrements,
Stood on lotus, sun and moon and male and female rudras,
With two legs wide apart in a striding posture,
And radiant within an expanse of blazing wisdom fire.
All appearances are the maṇḍala of the deity.
All sounds arise as the play of mantra.
All thoughts are the experience of clear light, the dharmatā nature.
Undistractedly and without grasping, I recite the mantra:
Oṃ vajra kīli kīlaya hūṃ phaṭ
Hūṃ. Within the kapāla of the absolute space of dharmatā,
All the phenomena of saṃsāra and nirvāṇa are arranged as ingredients of the feast.
With raṃ , yaṃ and khaṃ , they are burnt, dispersed and washed clean,
And with oṃ , āḥ and hūṃ , they are purified, multiplied and transformed.
Raṃ yaṃ khaṃ. Oṃ āḥ hūṃ
Hūṃ. This supreme, unsurpassable sacred offering
Radiates rays of five-coloured wisdom light
And is adorned with the five qualities of desirable sense objects:
Come now, accept what you wish in accordance with the samaya commitments!
Mahā gaṇacakra puja khāhi
Hūṃ. Hosts of servants, attendants and messengers,
Accept this torma of the remainders,
Dispel all circumstances that prevent accomplishment,
And bring about favourable, conducive conditions!