The Lotus Net A Sang Offering to the Mighty Lotus Ḍākinī, Kurukullā
Raṃ yaṃ khaṃ. From the state of emptiness arise clouds of divine smoke offerings—undefiled great bliss in the form of sensory delights—which fill the whole sky, like the great offering-clouds of Samantabhadra.
oṃ āḥ hūṃ hoḥ
Hrīḥ. From the all-pervading space of pure, natural luminosity
Arises the natural radiance of great bliss in the form of the captivating goddess.
Whose insignia, the lotus bow and arrow, represent skilful means and wisdom—
Kurukullā, ḍākinī of magnetizing, come now to this place!
Your beautiful and attractive form captivates the three realms
And blazes with a youthfulness that brings immaculate bliss.
Together with magnetizing ḍākinīs in their thousands and millions,
You irresistibly gather the pure essences of existence and peace.
With your bodies of appearance and emptiness dancing and swaying
And your melodious speech of delight resounding and cheering,
Come now as a guest joyfully to receive these offerings.
Consider us and care for us with your minds of loving passion.
Delightful billows of pure and fragrant incense smoke
Amass like rain-bearing clouds of pristine whiteness,
Yielding their droplets that fill the heavenly pathway of the sky,
And shower down an inexhaustible ocean of sensory delights—
The seven emblems of royalty, eight auspicious substances and symbols,
Excellent vases, wish-granting trees and treasuries of jewels,
Heavenly pleasure groves and rivers of flowing nectar—
All the wealth of gods and human beings with nothing lacking,
All that there is throughout the infinite realms of the ten directions,
Vast clouds of sensory delights—beautiful sights, sweet sounds,
Fragrant scents, delicious tastes, pleasant textures and perfect bliss—
All gathered as the inexhaustible sphere that is the treasury of space.
Arising as the mudrā that magnetizes appearance and existence,
Hosts of youthful ones possessing the treasury of passionate joy,
Perform their dance of means and wisdom, bliss and emptiness,
Which intensifies the rapture that is undefiled—all this, I offer.
In the pure space of luminosity wherein everything is equal,
An experience that is, and always has been, the highest bliss,
There’s no distinction between self, deity and all phenomena—
May this supreme, naturally arisen offering delight you!
Powerful Kurukullā, embodiment of all the victors’ activity,
Rest your lotus-like feet upon this practitioner’s crown.
Care for me, inseparably, from now until awakening,
And shower down twofold accomplishment and all that is desired.
With your lotus bow and arrow of skilful means and wisdom
Captivate irresistibly the three planes of existence,
And turn these multitudes of beings, human and non-human alike,
Into servants, suited and responsive to a practitioner’s needs.
Let all the illusory manifestations of impure wind-energy and mind
Be brought within the avadhūti ’s space 2 of bliss and emptiness,
And help us, we pray, to perfect within this very lifetime
The state of the innate ḍākinī of immutable ecstasy!
Carry out your enlightened activity, we pray,
So that our splendour, wealth, reputation and renown,
Power, influence, wellbeing and happiness may expand and increase
Like the waxing moon or a river in spate, and remain forever stable!
In short, help us to obtain whatever splendours we desire
And gain an ocean of accomplishments, ordinary and supreme.
Cause us to acquire the power to benefit the teachings and beings
And to accomplish our own and others’ aims, we pray!