The Beautiful Rosary of Jewels A Fulfilment Offering for Chimé Phakmé Nyingtik
Namo guru ārya-tārāyai!
The outer, inner and secret fulfilment substances become great clouds of sky-treasury wheels—radiant, limitless, and delightful to the deities.
oṃ vajra spharaṇa khaṃ
Hūṃ hrīḥ! Naturally arisen, primordially pure and expansive—
Master of the realm of deathlessness and bliss,
Transcendent conqueror of the supreme Lotus family—
Lord Amitāyus, may your noble intentions be fulfilled!
Vanquisher of the hosts of Māra, Lord of Death, in basic space,
Foremost of all vidyā-incantations of the Secret Mantra,
Arisen from the crown protuberance of the Victorious One—
Uṣṇīṣayavijayā, may your noble intentions be fulfilled!
Saviouress, who liberates from saṃsāra,
And, with ture , brings freedom from disease,
Mother of all the victorious buddhas—
Sublime Lady Tārā, may your noble intentions be fulfilled!
With the symbolic form of the awesome heruka,
Great lord pervading saṃsāra and nirvāṇa, existence and peace,
Holder of the secret treasury of vajra luminosity—
Śrī Siṃha, may your noble intentions be fulfilled!
Grand adornment of the crowns of five hundred paṇḍitas and siddhas,
Attainer of the supreme form, the pure body of great transference,
Great pioneer of the teachings of the supreme vehicle—
Vimalamitra, may your noble intentions be fulfilled!
Great embodiment of an ocean of the Three Roots,
Who, with the vajra form of a deathless vidyādhara,
Will abide forever in saṃsāric existence—
Padmasambhava, may your noble intentions be fulfilled!
Great translator, Buddha Vairocana in person,
Nirmāṇakāya emanation with eyes of wisdom
And knowledge that radiates through the three worlds—
Vairotsana, may your noble intentions be fulfilled!
Master of the teachings of Sūtra, Illusion and Mind,
Holder of an ocean-like treasury of Secret Mantra,
With unparalleled power, strength and capacity—
Venerable Nubchen, may your noble intentions be fulfilled!
Emanation of gentle-voiced Mañjughoṣa,
Dharma-king, whose kindness is incomparable,
And who brought the chariot of the teachings to the Land of Snows—
Tri Songdetsen, may your noble intentions be fulfilled!
One with the form of a great siddha of Yangdak
And unbounded miraculous powers, who rode upon the rays of the sun,
Foremost of the accomplished vidyādharas of enlightened mind—
Namkhai Nyingpo, may your noble intentions be fulfilled!
Queen among the consorts of the Guru’s wisdom mind,
Lady who compiled the teachings of the Great Secret,
And attained samādhi and unfailing mnemonic power—
Yeshe Tsogyal, may your noble intentions be fulfilled!
Holder of the treasury of seven forms of transmission,
Lord among all treasure-revealers, scholars and adepts,
Arisen as Ösal Trulpé Dorje, 'Vajra of Emanated Clear Light’—
Khyentse Wangpo, may your noble intentions be fulfilled!
Emanation of the princely Lhasé Damdzin,
Sovereign master of an ocean of profound treasures,
Vidyādhara to tame the beings of this degenerate age—
Chokgyur Lingpa, may your noble intentions be fulfilled!
Master of the infinite teachings of kama and terma,
Compiler of the ocean of great secret instructions,
Lord of Secrets, Vajradharma—
Pema Garwang, may your noble intentions be fulfilled!
Great lord who encompasses all the buddha families,
Universal embodiment of wisdom, primordial protector,
The mere thought of whom banishes fears of existence and peace—
Lord of the maṇḍala, may your noble intentions be fulfilled!
In addition, all the root and lineage gurus,
Infinite peaceful and wrathful yidam deities,
Ḍākinīs whose activity is without impediment,
And oath-bound dharmapālas, may your noble intentions be fulfilled!
Hūṃ hrīḥ! Bhagavatī, queen of the maṇḍala,
Lady who grants supreme immortality,
Embodiment of the wisdom of discernment—
Ārya Tārā and consort, may your noble intentions be fulfilled!
Purified anger and consciousness,
Bhagavatī of the supreme Vajra family,
The very essence of Akṣobhya himself—
Vajra Tārā, may your noble intentions be fulfilled!
Purified miserliness and sensation,
Bhagavatī of the supreme Ratna family,
The very essence of Ratnasambhava himself—
Ratna Tārā, may your noble intentions be fulfilled!
Purified desire and perception,
Bhagavatī of the supreme Padma family,
The very essence of Amitābha himself—
Padma Tārā, may your noble intentions be fulfilled!
Purified envy and conditioning factors,
Bhagavatī of the supreme Karma family,
The very essence of Amoghasiddhi himself—
Karma Tārā, may your noble intentions be fulfilled!
The purified view of eternalism,
With mastery of pacifying activity,
Protectress of the maṇḍala’s eastern gateway—
Tārā with a Hook, may your noble intentions be fulfilled!
The purified view of nihilism,
With mastery of enriching activity,
Protectress of the maṇḍala’s southern gateway—
Tārā with a Lasso, may your noble intentions be fulfilled!
The purified view of self,
With mastery of magnetizing activity,
Protectress of the maṇḍala’s western gateway—
Tārā with an Iron Chain, may your noble intentions be fulfilled!
The purified view of substantialism,
With mastery of wrathful activity,
Protectress of the maṇḍala’s northern gateway—
Tārā with a Bell, may your noble intentions be fulfilled!
At the great maṇḍala’s periphery,
And in all its spaces, above and below,
Hosts of deathless vidyādharas and sages,
Deities of long life in their thousands and millions,
Dharmapālas, wealth deities and treasure-keepers,
Like a great infinite illusory net,
On a scale beyond imagining, emanate and are reabsorbed—
Deities of Ārya Tārā, may your noble intentions be fulfilled!
Hūṃ hrīḥ! The samaya substances for fulfilling noble intentions—
Drinking water, water to bathe the feet, flowers, incense,
The brightest lamps, scented water, delicious food,
Music, sights, sounds, smells, tastes and textures,
Auspicious substances and symbols, the seven royal emblems,
Splendid mansions, wish-granting trees, pools in which to bathe,
Pleasure groves, treasure vases, wish-fulfilling cows,
Jewelled pendants, parasols, canopies,
Fans, tassels, powdered incense,
Garments of the finest silk,
Elegant jewelled adornments,
The seven ancillary trappings of royalty, 1
The magnificent array of mountains and continents, environments and inhabitants,
The sounds of songs and chanted verse,
Assorted delights to eat and drink,
Captivating song and dance
Performed by hosts of gods and goddesses,
The sixteen vajra goddesses of awareness,
Medicine, rakta, tormas, feast offerings and the like—
Throughout infinite realms beyond measure,
An inconceivable array of offering substances, all spontaneously present
Through the aspirations of Samantabhadra
And the samādhi of the Treasury of the Sky,
The expressive play of bliss and emptiness,
Amassed as infinite cloud-banks of offering,
For all the hosts of deities in this maṇḍala
To enjoy by means of vajra sensory powers,
All that appears throughout the three realms
Is present as the great maṇḍala of the vajra body—
Supporting and supported—of Ārya Tārā’s Heart-Essence,
Complete in great spontaneous perfection.
All apparent things that emerge in this way,
Amassed as vast cloud-banks of offerings—
Immaculate, self-manifest, billowing great bliss,
Arisen from space and adornments of space,
The genuine nature of great primordial purity,
The vast, empty expanse that is indestructible,
The great magical sphere of luminosity,
The light of wisdom, forever shining brightly—
Beyond offering and offerer, may this bring fulfilment.
Through the blessing of fulfilling noble intentions,
All my wrongs, both natural and proscribed misdeeds,
Whatever I have done in error or confusion
To impair the root or branch commitments,
I now confess with intense sorrow and regret
Before all the hosts of deities of the maṇḍala.
Consider me with loving affection!
Grant the siddhi of undefiled purity!
Beyond all elaboration of birth, death and transmigration,
Let thoughts of deathly Māra be pacified in basic space,
And let us attain the sublime three vajras
Of Noble Tārā, the Wish-Fulfilling Wheel.