The Secret Path of Wisdom A Prayer of Aspiration for the Mountain of Glory
Emaho!
In the rakṣasas' city of terror, on the Mountain of Glory
Lies the three-kāya buddha field of Lotus Light,
A wrathful realm, dark red like a raging inferno—
Within our vajra body the city of the heart.
And there in the palace of vidyādharas, ḍākas and ḍākinīs,
Dwells unchanging, self-knowing awareness, the enlightened vajra body of great bliss―
Padmākara, lord of all the victorious ones throughout the whole of space and time,
Emanating clouds of vajra emanations in a boundless, magical display.
Embodiment of all objects of refuge, great treasure of compassion—
My own body, speech and mind, my possessions and all the merit I have accumulated,
In clouds of offerings, like Samantabhadra’s, I offer to you.
In a state of equality and inseparable unity, I pay homage.
And, with a mind of one-pointed devotion. I pray.
By your great vow of vajra wisdom,
From now until enlightenment, remain as the lord of my buddha family,
And without ever parting, grant your blessing and care!
By however many sources of virtue I have accumulated,
And the compassion of the Guru, who embodies the Three Roots,
By the truth of great intrinsic wisdom, and
Through the power of this completely pure and fervent aspiration prayer,
At the very moment when the appearances of this life fade away,
And the supreme, pure experience of the path of light dawns,
May I be welcomed by an assembly of vidyādhara gurus before me,
Supported by peaceful and wrathful yidam deities behind me,
And accompanied by ḍākas and ḍākinīs of the three places all around me,
And, together with a falling rain of flowers, rainbow lights and music,
May I miraculously take birth in the presence of the Guru
In the pure realm of great bliss, Lotus Light.
Through the powerful, magical display of great wisdom
All the elements of a realm of the victorious ones of the three kāyas
Arise as whatever is desirable with nothing missing—
May I be born there in that completely pure, heavenly realm.
May the lord of Oḍḍiyāna and the buddhas and their heirs
Grant me relief and encouragement and all the qualities of existence and peace—
An excellent support complete in every way,
And then may I set out upon the path of the Vajra vehicle.
There, in one lifetime reliant upon that very support,
May I perfect the secret path of the four levels of a vidyādhara, 1
May I attain  the vajra wisdom body and, preserving the teachings of the Victorious Ones,
May my realisation and conduct match the Lord Guru’s own.
Victorious ones of the three times and their heirs, such as Mañjughoṣa,
Samantabhadra and the rest, all great bodhisattvas—
May I be the one, single-handedly, to carry out all their oceanic activity,
And to bring liberation through perfecting, maturing and purifying.
As long as the dharmadhātu, space and beings exist,
Then may all beings everywhere, especially the suffering,
Be cared for with supreme wisdom, compassion, and power,
And may the enlightened activity of Padmākara continually expand.
By the wondrous compassion of the Three Jewels and Three Roots,
The truth of reality, the interdependence of phenomena,
And the power and energy of my own pure motivation,
May these aspirations be completely realized!