Aspiration to Be Reborn at the Vajra Seat (Bodhgayā), Akaniṣṭha on Earth
Emaho!
The Vajra Seat at the heart of this world of Jambudvīpa,
A realm where the victorious buddhas of the three times awaken,
Conquer Māra and turn the Wheel of Dharma—
There, in that extraordinarily sublime place, may I take birth.
Sun of the Fortunate Aeon, lord of sages, master of the ten powers,
Surrounded by the vast, oceanic gatherings of your retinue—
Buddhas, bodhisattvas, śrāvakas, pratyekabuddhas and ordinary beings—
King of the Śākyas, at your feet I pray.
To all those places where the Bliss-gone Buddha dwelled,
Where he sat, where he walked, and where he stood,
I pay homage with utmost respect of body, speech and mind,
And offer this heartfelt prayer: inspire me with your blessings!
To the gandhola shrine, white as a water-crystal jewel,
An offering stūpa which Indra magically created,
And which is filled to overflowing above and below
With the precious relics of tathāgatas, I pray.
To the foundational ground with its seven vajra qualities,
Indestructible even at the termination of an age,
Where the Buddha's dharmadhātu wisdom mind
Is represented in the great crossed-vajra throne, I pray.
The teacher's representative, the Mahābodhi image,
Which is no different from the Lord of Sages in person,
And appears according to beings' merit and appreciation.
To this wondrous, great liberator-upon-sight, I pray.
To the bodhivṛkṣa , 1 created through the power of aspiration,
Like a magical fruit-bearing tree of varied jewels,
Which plants the seed of liberation in those it shades
And those touched by the same gust of wind, I pray.
To this place where bodhi trees abound in all directions,
With its countless sublime representations of enlightened body, speech and mind,
To this magically emanated celestial palace,
Thronged with holders of vajra realization, I pray.
To this place arrayed with precious stones and amonika ,
Where charming flowers are arranged in rows,
And hills of fragrant medicinal plants lie all around,
Enhanced by cliffs of jewel-like rock, I pray.
To this blissful, sweet, expansive place,
Where a heavenly river with its stream of offering waters
From the Gaṅgā, Yamunā and Nairañjanā and more
Burbles and murmurs with the sound of Dharma, I pray.
Where buddhas, bodhisattvas, śrāvakas, pratyekabuddhas, vidyādharas,
And vīras and ḍākinīs all gather like clouds
To sing praises and pour down vast showers of offering—
To this place extolled by the victorious ones of the three times, I pray.
In this most sacred, most sublime of locations,
May I take birth, first among the retinue of future buddhas,
Maitreya and the rest, to receive their prophecies
And carry out the activity of supreme awakening.
I offer vast oceanic clouds of real and imagined gifts,
Confess all misdeeds and downfalls, rejoice in virtue,
Request the turning of the Dharma Wheel, plead against the passing into nirvāṇa,
And dedicate all amassed virtue towards the awakening of beings.
From this moment on, throughout all my future lives,
May I always serve the teacher, King of the Śākyas.
May I gain the power to illuminate the precious Dharma
And subjugate all who would harm the teachings.
May I never fall prey to obstacles or demons,
May my life span, merit and intelligence increase,
And through the expansive light of twofold wisdom,
May I bring benefit to others in limitless ways.
When the time comes for me to awaken at the Vajra Seat,
May I accomplish all the buddhas' deeds without exception,
Perfectly turn the Wheel of Dharma on an immense scale,
And liberate all beings, as infinite as space in number.