The Jewelled Garland An Aspiration for the Spread of the Teachings of the Omniscient Father and Son, Masters of the Teachings of the Ancient Translations
Oṃ. May there be happiness and positivity!
Awareness-holders of the three transmissions, my glorious guru,
Chosen deities, peaceful and wrathful, victorious buddhas and your heirs,
Warrior spirits, sky-faring ḍākinīs and oceanic hosts of guardians:
Look upon me now with love, and be witness to this, my prayer!
You who bring the vital energy of benefit and happiness to all beings,
Essence of the wisdom of the buddhas of past, present and future and their heirs,
Sovereign of all Śākyamuni Buddha’s teachings, Longchenpa:
May your stainless noble wisdom spread far and wide!
The clear light of dharmatā is like the celestial sphere through which devas course —
By nature, utterly devoid of any adventitious stain,
And affording infinite opportunity for enlightened action:
May the teachings of the Omniscient Victor spread far and wide!
Adornment of the wondrous, spontaneously perfect Dense Array,
Lord of all maṇḍalas throughout the whole infinity of space and time,
Ground-like support for myriad warriors abiding on the bhūmis:
May the teachings of the Omniscient Victor spread far and wide!
In keeping with the pure and impure intentions of beings,
You take on illusory forms, as if in a play, to train others,
And captivate the stable minds of the fortunate:
May the teachings of the Omniscient Victor spread far and wide!
Learning and discernment, like the sun drawn by its seven green horses, 1
Are concentrated in the magnifying lens of contemplation,
To set aflame clear light of meditation, which burns so brightly:
May the teachings of the Omniscient Victor spread far and wide!
Through the brilliant light of the sun of stability and learning,
A thousand petals of perfect discipline unfurl in bloom,
To reveal the fresh honey-nectar of benefit and happiness:
May the teachings of the Omniscient Victor spread far and wide!
Not dispersed by the winds of flickering thought,
Pliancy, brought about through jewel-like bliss,
Is here applied to the virtue of training of others:
May the teachings of the Omniscient Victor spread far and wide!
Clouds of exposition adorn the sky of Buddha’s teaching,
Wherein the lightning of perfect reasoning flashes and strikes,
And a hundred thousand thunder-drums of poetry resound:
May the teachings of the Omniscient Victor spread far and wide!
Upon the white guardian elephant of unrivalled wisdom,
You stand, your thousand eyes of omniscience utterly clear,
As you wield the vajra-weapon of effortless Atiyoga:
May the teachings of the Omniscient Victor spread far and wide!
From the glaciers, whose nature is eightfold purity,
Flows the excellent stream that brings spiritual maturity,
With its rites that cleanse impurity and defilement:
May the teachings of the Omniscient Victor spread far and wide!
No mere imagining or projection of how things might be,
This maṇḍala of basic space, in which environment and beings are pure,
And you, who are without rival, reveal it directly:
May the teachings of the Omniscient Victor spread far and wide!
Without the need for tiring means of inspiring fourfold joy
Based on the confined efforts of energy and mind,
Here, clear light is revealed directly, just as it is:
May the teachings of the Omniscient Victor spread far and wide!
All reliance upon intellectual reasoning involving analysis and speculation
And elaborate expressions of self-radiance from controlling wind-energy
Are pacified within the space of eternally pure, profound luminosity:
May the teachings of the Omniscient Victor spread far and wide!
This wondrous system, in which the unceasing nature of emptiness
Is perfectly complete within the present moment of awareness,
As spontaneous presence, absence, oneness and suffusion:
May the teachings of the Omniscient Victor spread far and wide!
This wondrous way of traversing paths and stages all at once,
In which unimpeded awareness is left genuine and unaltered,
And unelaborate rigpa’s radiance is an array of rainbow-colored light:
May the teachings of the Omniscient Victor spread far and wide!
The nature of blissful awareness, in which saṃsāra and nirvāṇa are equal,
Is expressed as loving concern for living beings, infinite in number,
And essence and expression are as inseparable as light and its radiance:
May the teachings of the Omniscient Victor spread far and wide!
Threading together the jewels of study, reflection and meditation
For hundreds of traditions of sūtra and mantra, without bias,
Makes an adornment to be worn by those with clarity of mind:
May the teachings of the Omniscient Victor spread far and wide!
The darkness that is dull meditation practiced three times a day,
And, likewise, the constellations of intellectual speculation,
Are here eclipsed by the brilliant moon of scripture and realization:
May the teachings of the Omniscient Victor spread far and wide!
The approach to learning is vast, as broad as the sky itself,
Disciplined conduct is as pure as that of the noble elders,
And beneficial activity is aided by love’s great treasury:
May the teachings of the Omniscient Victor spread far and wide!
Excellent explanations of Sūtra, Tantra and Mind 2 are like a jewel pinnacle,
Made clean and bright through wondrous scripture and reasoning,
And set atop the banner heralding victory over existence and quiescence:
May the teachings of the Omniscient Victor spread far and wide!
Through the blessings of the unfailing truth of Buddha, Dharma and Saṅgha,
And the power, strength and capacity of oceans of oath-bound guardians of the teaching,
And, above all, through the force of my own pure intentions,
May the points contained in this aspiration, swiftly and easily, come to pass!