An Aspiration to Travel to the Hidden Land of Pemokö
Embodiment of the Three Roots, Pema Tötrengtsal,
Together with the gatherings of heroes and ḍākinīs,
Come here unimpededly and remain
Witnessing me as I make this aspiration, I pray.
Through whatever collections of virtue I and others, all ordinary beings and noble ones,
Accumulate throughout the three times,
And the power of the truth of the bodhicitta resolve of vidyādharas and ḍākinīs ,
May the aim of this aspiration be quickly accomplished without impediment!
In this supreme meritorious realm of the people of the snow mountains,
Supreme among all the hidden lands blessed by Padmasambhava is
This second Khecara, Pemokö—
May we see its wondrous marvel in actuality!
In the environment of the essential wealth of the four elements, the ten virtues increase, and
The grain of a good harvest and everything one could desire naturally come together.
Even the names of the calamities of contagious disease, strife, and war are not heard—
May there be this constant auspiciousness!
Barbarians, savages, carnivorous wild beasts and insects and the like,
With their menacing claws, fangs, and beaks, as well as
The sorcerous tricks of the local guardians, the eight classes of spirits, and the ḍākinīs—
May all unseen disruptive obstacles be pacified!
May swollen protrusions, abscesses, inflammatory diseases, elephantiasis,
Edema, cold natured illnesses, lymphatic disorders, and all such illnesses
Of the four elements and infectious vapors,
Be eliminated and all who possess ardour travel without obstruction!
May the fortunate ones of snowy Tibet come together
And spread the essential teachings of theory and practice,
Particularly, by the swift path of the Vajrayāna,
May the hidden land be filled with male and female accomplished ones.
Whoever merely aspires to reach this place—
Their accumulated stains of misdeeds, obscurations, faults, and downfalls will be purified,
And by the natural blazing of experience and realisation,
May the channels, winds, and essences ripen and be liberated!
May the intentions of the ones who opened this hidden land, Zhepai Dorje and
The mother of the victorious ones Lhachik Dorjé Kyabjé, 1
Be accomplished just as they were made.
May they both live for an ocean of eons!
Those prophesied by the vast multitudes of supremely secret ḍākinīs,
The guide, the heroes, the glorious king, the lord and his subjects,
For the time being, may all excellent things of the higher realms increase for them, and
May they ultimately be liberated in the [Palace of] Lotus Light!
May the hosts of ḍākinīs always offer companionship,
The oath-bound protectors accomplish their enlightened activities, and
Every deed and action, just as they have been divined,
Result only in great benefit for the teachings and beings!
May all the weary ones who strive to reach this place
Always be watched over and accepted by the guru and ḍākinīs, and
The blessing of compassion enter into their hearts,
So they naturally accomplish the benefit of this life and the next!
May all the invading enemies of snowy Tibet be averted
By the power of the auspicious interdependence of this emanating place, and
May all the beings of the land of Tibet be happy, and
The doctrine of the Buddha flourish and spread!
May all the suffering of the three lower realms cease, and
The three realms attain the perfection of Akaniṣṭha!
May the ornamented wheels of the three secrets blaze
For as long as space remains!