The Purifier of Ethical Discipline An Aspirational Praise to Vajradhara Kunga Zangpo
Oṃ svasti!
In the true prophetic speech of the peerless Teacher, king of Śākyas,
You were lavished with bouquets of praise.
Kunga Zangpo, second lord of sages for this degenerate age,
As I recall your life of liberation, I devotedly offer praise.
Unrivalled in your flawless exposition
Of sūtra and mantra throughout this northern land of snows.
Pure in the threefold vows, your disciples like a chain of golden mountains,
Extended throughout the whole wealth–bearing world—to you I bow.
Through the profound yogas of generation and perfection,
You attained the kingdom of dharmakāya for your own benefit,
And your activity for others’ welfare extended to the limits of space—
Noble and reverend Evaṃpa, to you I devotedly offer praise.
In your knowing wisdom, you were the valiant Mañjuśrī,
In your love, the holder of the white lotus in person, 1
And in your capacity, the vajra-wielding compiler of tantras— 2
To the glorious guru, indivisible from these, I devotedly offer praise.
With pure ethical discipline and pristine view and conduct,
You gained oceanic qualities of dhāraṇī and samādhi,
And brought a river of fourfold empowerment to fields of disciples.
To you, the producer of ripening and liberation, I offer praise.
Through the inspiration and blessings of this praise and prayer to you
Combined with fervent and wondrous acts of obeisance,
May the infinite beings who extend to the limits of space
All be liberated from suffering and attain awakening!
For me and all your other followers in particular,
May we resist heedless, negative acts of body, speech and mind,
Enter the delightful mansion of discipline and renunciation,
And arouse the supreme mind set upon awakening!
Fully established in the ways of Vajrayāṇa,
With vows and samaya utterly pure,
May I follow the paths of the two stages to the very end
And actualize the state of the victorious Vajradhara!
From now on, throughout all my lives to come,
May this second conqueror be the lord of my family,
May I be sustained by the nectar of his secret speech,
And, having perfected abandonment and realization, may I spontaneously accomplish the twofold benefit!