Transference: Enlightenment Without Meditation from The Heart-Essence of the Vast Expanse
Emaho!
My entire perception, spontaneously perfect, is a realm of infinite purity, 2
The realm of Great Bliss, arrayed in complete and perfect detail. Here,
My own body is Vajrayoginī,
With one face and two hands, brilliant red and holding hooked knife and skull,
My two feet gracefully poised, my three eyes gazing into the sky.
In the middle of her body runs the central channel
As thick as a hollow reed arrow,
Empty and clear like a tube of light.
Its upper end is open at the brahma-aperture,
And its lower end extends below the navel centre.
Upon the notch at the heart-centre,
In the centre of a light green sphere of inner air ( lung )
Awareness clearly appears as a red syllable Hrīḥ .
A forearm’s length above the crown of one’s head
Appears the Buddha Amitābha, ‘Limitless Light’,
Complete with all the major and minor marks.
Blessed One, Thus Gone One, Arhat, completely perfect Buddha, protector Amitābha, I pay homage to you. I make offerings to you. I take refuge in you.
Emaho!
In the self-appearing realm, the ultimate Akaniṣṭha,
Is an expanse that teems with rainbow light of intense devotion.
Here, the embodiment of all objects of refuge, one’s own root guru,
In an extraordinary form and with a radiant body,
Abides as the essence of Buddha Amitābha.
With intense devotion, we pray:
Inspire us to accomplish the path of transference!
Inspire us to reach the realm of Akaniṣṭha!
May we capture the domain of dharmakāya expanse!
hrīḥ hrīḥ hrīḥ hrīḥ hrīḥ
hik hik hik
Blessed One, Thus Gone One, Arhat, completely perfect Buddha, protector Amitābha, I pay homage to you. I make offerings to you. I take refuge in you.
Buddha Amitābha, I prostrate to you; 3
Padmasambhava of Uḍḍiyāna, I pray to you;
Kind root teacher, hold me with your compassion!
Root and lineage gurus, guide me along the path.
Inspire me to master the profound path of transference.
Inspire me to take this short path of transference to a celestial realm.
Inspire me and others, so that as soon as this life is over,
We may take rebirth in the realm of Sukhāvatī!
hrīḥ hrīḥ hrīḥ hrīḥ hrīḥ
hik hik hik
Blessed One, Thus Gone One, Arhat, completely perfect Buddha, protector Amitābha, I pay homage to you. I make offerings to you. I take refuge in you.
Emaho! Most wondrous protector Amitābha, 4
Great Compassionate One and Vajrapāṇi-Mahāsthāmaprāpta,
For myself and others I pray to you one-pointedly:
Inspire us to master the profound path of transference.
Inspire us, so that, when it comes time for us to die,
Our consciousness may be transferred to the realm of Great Bliss!
hrīḥ hrīḥ hrīḥ hrīḥ hrīḥ
hik hik hik
phaṭ phaṭ phaṭ phaṭ phaṭ
oṃ amaraṇi jīvantaye svāhā ||