The Extremely Secret Unelaborate Daily Sādhana for the Heart Practice of the Great Demon-Slayer The Preliminaries: Taking Refuge & Generating Bodhicitta The Main Part: The Visualization and Recitation The Protection The Conclusion: The Dissolution and Dedication
Namo Guru!
Namo! In the guru, the Three Jewels, and the yidam deity,
With the deepest devotion I take refuge.
So that I and all beings, as limitless as the sky, reach unsurpassed awakening,
I shall practice Dükyi Shechen, the Great Demon-Slayer.
Hūṃ! All phenomena are primordially pure suchness.
From all-illuminating wrathful compassion
The causal samādhi, a red luminous hūṃ ,
Spontaneously and effortlessly appears.
Light emanates from the hūṃ
And purifies clinging to the world and beings as real.
The elements, one above the other, are the five mothers. 1
Within the space of ‘E’ the outer world, utterly pure,
Is the great palace of the blazing charnel ground.
In its centre upon a ten-spoked meteoric-iron wheel
And a lotus and sun-disc seat, trampling arrogant spirits
Is my pure inner nature, the Heruka
Dükyi Shechen, the awesome tamer of demons.
Appearing from the syllable hūṃ ,
This innate deity takes the form of Vajrakumāra,
Dark blue, with three heads—
The right face white, left red, and middle blue—
And with six hands—the two on the right hold nine- and five- pronged vajras,
The two on the left wield a blazing fireball and khaṭvāṅga,
And the last two roll a kīla-dagger the size of Mount Meru.
He is adorned with the heruka and charnel-ground ornaments,
And joined in union with his consort Dīptacakrā.
With his four legs in striding posture, he stands amidst a blazing inferno,
Revelling in the nine expressions of dance.
At his five places are the five supreme sons.
On the rim joists are the wrathful kings along with their retinues, 2
From the blazing light of his body
Stream forth cloud-banks of the five kinds of Siṃhamukhā.
On the spokes of the wheel, in the eight directions,
Reside the awesome herukas of the eight sādhanas.
Above them soar vajra-garuḍas,
Below them dwell the proud protectors, male, female and diverse, and
Each heruka is accompanied by their retinue.
All appearances are perfected as the heruka’s emblems.
In the main deity’s heart, in the centre of a reddish-brown dome of light,
Upon a sun-disc resides hūṃ encircled by the mantra-mālā.
During recitation, from the blazing mantra
Masses of vajra-weapons shoot forth,
Suppressing the eight classes of spirits and
Liberating the hordes of obstacles and demons into all-encompassing space.
The luminous essence of saṃsāra and nirvāṇa dissolve into me.
I visualize the whole of saṃsāra and nirvāṇa as the awesome heruka’s realm.
oṃ āḥ hūṃ vajra-guru-padma kīli kīlaya sarva vighnān baṃ hūṃ phaṭ
From the blazing fire at the tips of the spokes of the wheel
Emanate cloud-banks of weaponry of the five kinds,
Above, below and in all directions,
Forming an indestructible tent of protection.
The space is filled with hosts of wild wrathful deities,
Providing perfect protection within the all-encompassing space of the six wisdoms.
buddha vajra ratna padma karma kīli kīlaya dīpta-cakra jñāna rakṣa rakṣa bhrūṃ
Hūṃ! The appearances of the deities dissolve into the space of luminosity.
Phaṭ! Once again I appear in the form of the deity.
With oṃ āḥ hūṃ my three places are protected.
Through this merit may all limitless sentient beings
Attain the non-abiding nirvāṇa.
By the compassion of the vidyādhara guru
May auspiciousness pervade all directions and times.