The Twenty-Eight Commitments
Oṃ. Lord of yoga who has attained the ultimate wisdom,
You who benefit beings and have mastered compassion,
Unique friend and ally to all three realms of existence,
God among gods, pray turn your attention towards me.
Oceanic emanations of the bliss-gone buddhas,
Vast assemblies of accomplished lords of yoga,
And oath-bound mantra-holders, devas and the rest—
Gathered from all around, pray turn your attention towards me.
For my part, I do not seek dominion, higher realms,
Possessions and resources or the pleasures of the senses,
But strive only out of a loving and altruistic concern—
Omniscient ones, witness this pledge of mine, I pray.
Protectors, since your wisdom is unobstructed,
You understand this noble intention of mine.
Following my pledge in your sublime presence,
I shall not disappoint or deceive you, O protectors.
Sincerely I renounce all preoccupation with gain and fame,
All forms of deception and concern for material possessions,
And by focusing my attention entirely on others’ benefit,
I shall carry out the magnificent activities of a yogi.
I set my mind on the supreme, unsurpassed
Awakening of Samantabhadra,
And vow that henceforth I shall fully adopt
Ultimate and relative bodhicitta in the proper way.
Even if all living creatures were to turn demonic
And cut my body into a thousand tiny pieces,
Still I would not renounce supreme bodhicitta,
Wisdom and compassion, or you, yidam deities.
Even at the cost of my life, I shall never forsake the great vajra samayas,
The vajra master, or my vajra brothers and sisters,
As well as all who have entered the supreme vehicle,
And I shall always do whatever I can to protect them.
Saṃsāra, which is by nature unreal and illusory,
Will not inspire the slightest fear in me at all,
As I joyfully remain until the very end of time
For the sake of those who live in ignorance.
While coursing through saṃsāric realms for others’ sake,
I shall carry out great waves of enlightening activity.
In order to benefit sentient beings of the six classes
I shall take on births according to my own intention.
I shall not take delight in and cling to this world
Or pursue the limited transcendence of misery,
But continue to bring benefit for oceanic aeons
In states of suffering, wherever they may be.
Prolonged exertion in conditioned existence
Is a bodhisattva’s commitment, and therefore
For as long as it takes to empty the lower realms,
I shall continue without ever feeling discouraged.
Working for beings’ sake with wisdom and method,
And never lacking the provisions of compassion,
I shall view even the hell realms, the land of pretas,
And the world of Yama as heavenly gardens of delight.
Inspired by loving kindness for beings, yogis produce
The sublime nectar of Dharma from their splendid throats. 2
May I too dispense and propagate teachings as appropriate
Continuously until the very end of this world.
Under the influence of worldly karma and conditions,
The sacred Dharma will cease to exist in certain places;
So even if I must traverse fire or a razors’s edge,
May I uphold the noble teachings until the end of time.
Setting my mind on supreme, unsurpassable awakening,
And engaging in the supreme form of practice,
With whatever strength I can muster throughout my lives,
May I always fulfil the enlightened intentions of great beings.
Whatever obstructs the sacred Dharma and its practice,
Whether from human intervention or non-human forces,
May I, through my peaceful and wrathful activity,
Pacify it all and put an end to it entirely.
Through the unsurpassable great vehicle of supreme yoga,
And through relying on you, the vajra sovereign,
May I purify buddha realms and come to beings’ aid
By realizing the essence of awakening.
If I should succumb to an untimely death,
Then, by emanating a sublime and exalted mudrā form,
May I arrive in your presence in order to continue the path,
O Guardian of secret mantra with your wisdom maṇḍala. 3
You know what suffering there is throughout the three realms.
So as I seek to act swiftly on behalf of beings,
By extinguishing the fires of the hells and so on,
May the sublime ones grant me the power I require.