A Practice of Fulfilment and Confession to an Ocean of Oath-bound Protectors
Oṃ! Wisdom protectors and those who carry out activity, you who are clairvoyant and possess magical powers,
Who judge good and bad and assess whether our sacred samaya pledges have been kept, 1
You are like an ally who acts according to the commands, 2
Ocean of oath-bound ones, please think of us with your wisdom mind!
Although I, a yogi, mantra holder and practitioner,
Pledged to keep the vows of the supreme vajra vehicle of secret mantra
And although I vowed to accomplish the enlightened body, speech and mind,
I have come under the sway of ignorance and so have failed to do so.
I openly admit and confess all my transgressions, confusions, impairments and breakages!
Since my body, speech and mind have fallen under the power of emotions,
I have committed unwholesome, negative acts, encouraged others to do so,
And rejoiced in others committing them.
All this, without exception, I confess here and now!
While the dharmakāya, the body of reality, is free from any conceptual elaboration, like the sky,
Misled by thoughts and concepts, I have grasped at ideas of 'I' and 'self'.
As my view and meditation lack clarity, I have strayed from genuine samādhi.
I openly admit and confess going against the nature of reality!
Although I vowed to practise day and night,
I only meditate briefly and recite few mantras.
I have been careless about practising the phases of approach and accomplishment, and to the rituals I have made additions of my own and omitted what is essential,
I have arranged offerings and tormas incorrectly, misunderstood union and liberation and committed crimes with immediate retribution. 3
I have been mistaken about with whom to share the secrets, and have erred by disobeying the commands.
I openly admit and confess all my transgressions, confusions, impairments and breakages!
I have kept the company of samaya-breakers, and falsely purified their transgressions,
I have taught the Dharma to violators, and practised with them in one assembly.
As I have not avoided samaya-breakers, impairments and breakages have ruined me.
I confess all my impairments, obscurations and faults!
To you, the yidam deity I have practised for so long according to the phases of approach and accomplishment,
I confess that I have upset the oath-bound protectors,
I have failed to make offerings at the appropriate times, and have not completed the phases of approach and accomplishment,
I have directed wrathful activity towards those who have not carried out crimes with immediate retribution,
I have failed to always act with pure behaviour and have practised with tainted view and meditation,
Have failed to be loving and affectionate and have omitted to make amends by making offerings.
My fulfilment practice has remained incomplete, and I have made additions of my own and omitted what is essential.
I openly admit and confess all my impairments and breakages, faults and downfalls, careless behaviour, transgressions and confusions!
Please cleanse and purify them!
Supreme deities, as long as you remain,
Never separate from me and cause me to meditate on you!
Think of me with compassion and uphold the all-important maṇḍala.
Bless me and grant me empowerment and accomplishment,
Reveal wisdom to me, and clear away my ignorance.
Help me discriminate between all phenomena, which are in perfect equanimity.
Establish me in the space within which the enlightened qualities are spontaneously accomplished!
May I attain the dharmakāya that is free from thought, like the sky,
And the luminosity of the pre-eminent saṃbhogakāya, the sphere of enjoyment, like the sun.
May I manifest as a nirmāṇakāya, like the rays of the sun, spontaneously benefiting sentient beings!
May all beings, as limitless as space,
Be liberated in the expanse of the four enlightened activities!