Gentle Splendour 1 Praises to the Great Abbot Śāntarakṣita
While the bodhisattva Mañjuśrī’s pristine lotus feet
Remained elegantly poised atop a perfect lotus,
You perfectly trained in the Dharma, profound and vast —
Mahāpaṇḍita Śāntarakṣita, to you I offer homage and praise.
Pure, you hold the saffron victory banner,
The pratimokṣa discipline, the root of the teachings.
Renowned as the sovereign scripture-holding observer of vows —
Only son of Śākya, to you I offer homage and praise.
Within the ocean-like expanse of profound and vast samādhi
Lies the treasure box of qualities — clairvoyance and more,
Floating amidst the rolling waves of bodhisattva conduct —
Supreme Bodhisattva, to you I offer homage and praise.
Along the path of perfect reasoning,
Where all dharmas accord with the twofold truth of valid cognition,
Your intelligence pervades the world, like the light of the sun and moon —
Fount of Learning, to you I offer homage and praise.
Crossing the ocean of Buddhist and non-Buddhist views,
You unified the approach of Madhyamaka and Cittamātra,
Renowned like the sun and moon throughout the noble land of India —
Single Gem of the Teachings, to you I offer homage and praise.
In the dark abode of the Snowy Land,
You were the first to open the door to the light of the Buddha’s supreme teachings,
Sounding the royal drum of genuine scripture and reasoning —
Great Abbot, King of Dharma, to you I offer homage and praise.
Remaining for nine hundred years
In the noble land of India and the snows of Tibet,
You hoisted in every quarter the victory banner of the teachings —
Royal Holder of the Teachings, to you I offer homage and praise.
With marvellous bodhicitta you made an ocean of aspirations,
And with skilful means in elaborate display
You spread excellent activity throughout the entire world —
Matchless Kindness, to you I offer homage and praise.
Master of powerful magic, out of kindness and love
You grew rich in an ocean of qualities, yet were mild and humble,
You perfected the path of secret mantra, yet maintained the conduct of a bhikṣu —
Follower of Humble Bearing, to you I offer homage and praise.
For as long as the Buddha’s teachings remain in Tibet
Emanations will come again and again to uphold and spread the Dharma,
Resolute in their work on behalf of the teachings —
Protector of the Snowy Land, to you I offer homage and praise.
For whoever meditates on your form, it is said that the teachings’ domain will flourish,
Pure discipline, samādhi, and intelligence will bloom,
And the state of Vajra-Wielding Victor will ultimately be attained —
Treasury of Immeasurable Compassion, to you I offer homage and praise.
You promised that in the final days, when the teachings are cast aside
And followers of the Dharma are in an abject state,
By recalling you we will be protected —
Compassionate One, remember your pledge!
Now, during this plundering age of the five degenerations,
Without the nectar of discipline and samādhi,
Beings struggle to find the doctrine of the authentic view,
And those who wish to harm the teachings only grow in number.
When, like the favourable summer rains that come to an early end,
However carefully we plan, there is only failure —
Then, ever-victorious powerful Lord, vajra-wielding Protector,
Never forget your pledge!
Spread the study and teaching of the scriptures and tantras,
Nurture the three trainings and the two stages of yoga,
Increase the dominion of the Dharma of learning and realization —
So that a new era of perfect excellence may arise!
In each of my lives, may I be your disciple,
Never wavering from the path which delights the buddhas.
May each and every being, infinite in number,
Become the Master of Secrets, holding the secrets of the Victors.