A River Filled with the Amṛta of Love A Liturgy for Saving and Releasing the Lives of Animals
Homage to Avalokiteśvara!
Until I realise the essence of enlightenment,
I take refuge in the buddhas,
And likewise in the Dharma,
And the assembly of bodhisattvas.
Just as the sugatas of former times
Aroused the bodhicitta
And established themselves by stages
In the training of a bodhisattva,
Just so, for the benefit of beings
I will arouse bodhicitta
And likewise I will train
Progressively in those disciplines. 1
Today, my birth has been fruitful.
I have well obtained a human existence.
Today I am born into the family of the buddhas.
I have become a son or daughter of the buddhas. 2
From now on, at all costs, I will perform
The actions befitting to my family.
I will not be a stain
On this faultless noble family. 3
Just like a blind person
Happening upon a priceless jewel in a heap of rubbish,
So, through some fortunate coincidence,
The bodhicitta has been born in me. 4
Today, in the presence of all the protectors,
I invite all beings to the state of sugata,
And, meanwhile, to happiness and bliss:
Gods, asuras and others—rejoice! 5
Kyé! Through the power by ignorance and delusion,
The experiences of various animals in saṃsāra arise.
As a means of averting them and bringing about
The mandala of dharmadhātu wisdom,
This rite of auspicious connection,
Sealed with the absolute, is unfailing.
Bhagavān, tathāgata, arhat, complete and perfect buddha, Ratna-śikhin, Crest of Jewels, I pay homage to you. I make offerings to you. I take refuge in you.
Bhagavān, tathāgata, arhat, complete and perfect buddha, Śākyamuni, Sage of the Śākyas, I pay homage to you. I make offerings to you. I take refuge in you.
Bhagavān, tathāgata, arhat, complete and perfect buddha, Protector Amithāba, Buddha of Boundless Light, I pay homage to you. I make offerings to you. I take refuge in you.
Bodhisattva, Mahāsattva, embodiment of great compassion, Noble Lord Avalokiteśvara, I pay homage to you. I make offerings to you. I take refuge in you.
oṃ amitābha 6 āyusiddhi hūṃ hrīḥ
oṃ maṇi padme hūṃ hrīḥ
Namo! All dharmas originate from causes.
The Tathāgata has taught these causes,
And also that which puts a stop to these causes—
This too has been taught by the Great Śramaṇa.
Commit not a single unwholesome action,
Cultivate a wealth of virtue,
Tame completely this mind of ours—
This is the teaching of the buddhas.
oṃ namo bhagavate aparimitāyur-jñāna-suviniścita-tejo-rājāya tathāgatāya arhate samyak saṃbuddhāya | tadyathā | oṃ puṇye puṇye mahā-puṇye 'parimita-puṇye 'parimita-puṇya-jñāna-saṃbhāropacite | oṃ sarva-saṃskāra-pariśuddhe dharmate gagana-samudgate svabhāva-viśuddhe mahā-naya-parivāre svāhā | 7
oṃ svabhāva śuddhāḥ sarvadharmāḥ svabhāva śuddho ‘haṃ
Everything dissolves into emptiness. Out of the state of emptiness, the body, aggregates, elements, and sense fields of the beings that are the focal point of the practice become inconceivable cloud banks of offerings, whose nature is complete purity and great bliss.
oṃ āḥ hūṃ
namaḥ sarvatathāgatebhyo viśvamukhebhyaḥ | sarvathā kham udgate spharaṇa imaṃ gaganakhaṃ svāhā ||
Kyé! To the buddhas residing in the ten directions’ pure realms,
To the Dharma, and to the Saṅgha,
To the gathering of gurus, devas, and ḍākinīs,
To the dharmapālas and oath-bound guardians,
I make this sacred offering.
May all sentient beings, endowed with consciousness
And the breath that supports their vitality, be freed
Of all that endangers their life and be relieved of their fears.
Their aggregates, elements, and sense fields
Are clouds of offerings, by nature completely pure.
They bring pleasure that fills the entire sky,
The great bliss of everything to delight the senses.
May these substances that bring supreme immortality,
Manifested here in a boundless and infinite array,
Fulfil your sacred and weighty pledges,
And bring the most sublime and supreme delight! 8
May I and all infinite sentient beings—
Be freed from all obstacles that bring untimely death.
May we live for an extremely long time,
And may any degeneration of the aggregates and elements be restored!
May the vital essence of the inanimate and animate universe be rejuvenated!
May our longevity and wellbeing, our radiance and splendour flourish!
May we be free from illness and possess the wealth of Dharma!
Through this merit
May all infinite sentient beings
Attain the vajrakāya, beyond birth and death,
The sublime level of Lord Amitāyus.
Through the auspicious connection of having done this good act
May the form and life of the glorious gurus be perfectly stable,
May their wondrous activities fill all the ten directions
And may the wishes of their awakened minds be completely fulfilled!
Ho! Casting aside the three doors of the lower realms of saṃsāra,
Through the power of planting well the seed of liberation,
May the buddhas' teachings spread and sentient beings be happy,
May the suffering of the lower realms be entirely cleared away,
And may everyone attain liberation and perfect peace,
Swiftly and without any form of obstacle!
As soon as we have discarded this unclean body,
May we miraculously take birth in Sukhāvatī, realm of great bliss.
As soon as we are born there, having traversed the bhūmis,
May we send our emanations in all directions, to benefit beings.
May all sentient beings be happy.
May all the lower realms be forever empty.
May the aspirations of all the bodhisattvas
Of the various bhūmis be fulfilled!
Through the power of training to abandon both harming others and the attitude behind it,
May the thought of doing harm arise not even in my dreams;
May everything be auspicious for me to have that perfect discipline,
Which never diverges from the altruistic mind of bodhicitta!