Guru Sādhana of Garab Dorje
Ah. The environment and inhabitants have always been entirely pure.
Out of the state of great primordial emptiness,
My own body appears clearly as Vajrapāṇi in peaceful form.
In the sky before me, in a vast and deep blue space,
The light of spontaneous presence shines in clusters.
In their midst, in an expanse of five-coloured circles of light,
Upon a jewelled throne and seats of lotus, sun and moon,
Is that great pioneer of the teachings of the supreme vehicle:
Garab Dorje in saṃbhogakāya attire.
He smiles serenely and is brilliant white, adorned with major and minor marks.
His right hand is in the gesture of granting refuge,
And his left hand rests upon the seat near his hip.
He wears a silken lower garment and jewel ornaments.
His two feet are in the bodhisattva posture,
And he is seated with majestic poise.
His three centres are marked with the three vajra syllables,
From which light radiates out to invite the wisdom beings,
Who then dissolve into the visualization, like water merging with water.
Aḥ. I pay homage with the view of my own awareness as the guru.
I offer the primordial perfection of appearance and existence.
I confess all misdeeds and downfalls within the unborn expanse.
I rejoice in the virtue that is unfabricated.
I request you to turn the dharma wheel of spontaneous presence.
I pray that you may remain in the state beyond birth and death.
And I dedicate within the spontaneously present, youthful vase body.
May we awaken in the magnificent form of the three kāyas.
oṃ āḥ hūṃ
To the warrior-like Garab Dorje, Vajrasattva in person,
I pray with unwavering and fervent devotion.
Having perfected the great power of clear light realization,
May I attain the indestructible rainbow body of great transference.
oṃ āḥ guru prajñā bhava hevajra sarva siddhi hūṃ
From the three seed-syllables at the guru's three centres,
Flows a stream of nectar, with light-rays, the three syllables,
Forms of the guru, mantra garlands and hand implements.
It pours into my own three centres, one by one.
And through this, I receive empowerment, purify the four obscurations,
And the seed for practising the four paths
And completing the four visions is implanted within me.
At the end, the guru, in his great delight,
Passes through my crown and takes his seat at the centre of my heart.
At his own heart centre, within an expanse of five-coloured light,
Sits Samantabhadra together with his consort,
And in his heart-centre, upon a sphere of blue light,
Is a syllable A surrounded by the seed syllables of the sixfold expanse. 1
All the collections of your own consciousness
Are absorbed into the expanse of purity.