The Blazing Majesty of Blessings An Activity Manual for the Blazing Wrathful Guru, Hayagrīva and Garuḍa, from the Heart-Essence of the Vast Expanse Taking Refuge Generating the Mind Set Upon Awakening Gathering the Accumulations Giving the Command The Protective Circle Invocation of Blessings Blessing the Offerings The Main Part Summoning the Wisdom Deities and Requesting Them to Remain Paying Homage with the Flower of Awareness Offerings Praise The Visualization for the Mantra Recitation The Conclusion of the Stages of the Feast Blessing the Offerings Inviting the Field of Accumulation Offering the First Portion of the Feast Offering The Intermediate Offering: Confession Liberation and Offering Fulfilment Dedicating the Remainder Offering Invoking the Sacred Pledge The Covenant Maintaining the Relationship with the Tenma Goddesses 10 Horse Dance Receiving the Accomplishments Confession of Mistakes in Practice Dissolution of the Perfection Stage Dedication and Aspiration Verses of Auspiciousness
Namo. I and all infinite sentient beings
Take refuge in the guru, the essence of the Three Jewels,
And the maṇḍala of the Wrathful Guru, Hayagrīva and Garuḍa,
With devotion and from the depths of our hearts!
Hoḥ. Having entered this maṇḍala of the Wrathful Guru,
So that I might liberate, with immeasurable compassion,
All beings of the six realms, my very own parents,
I generate the awakening mind, relative—in aspiration and action—and absolute!
Hoḥ. To the deity emanated from the expanse of primordial wisdom,
I pay homage, make offerings and confess my transgressions.
I rejoice in virtuous deeds, urge you to turn the wheel of Dharma,
And request to always remain. All this merit,
I dedicate to the great, unsurpassed dharmadhātu.
Hrīḥ. In this emanated maṇḍala of the environment and beings,
All you malicious and obstructing demonic forces
Take this torma offering and go elsewhere!
Should you dare disobey this command, you’ll be annihilated by the vajra!
Hrīḥ. In the infinite purity of appearance and existence,
Even the names of negative forces and obstacles do not exist.
Yet to prevent harmful influences, the delusions of fleeting thoughts,
I set the boundary in the state of dharmadhātu.
Hūṃ. Deities of the Wrathful Guru, Hayagrīva and Garuḍa:
From the expanse of the dharmakāya, arouse compassion,
And manifest in various saṃbhogakāya displays
And nirmāṇakāya maṇḍalas and deities.
Grant empowerment and blessings, and show us signs and omens!
oṃ āh hūṃ mahā guru artsik nirtsik hrīḥ hūṃ trom phaṭ
sarva-samaya āveśāya pheṃ pheṃ
Oṃ āḥ hūṃ. Offering clouds of all that appears and exists
Are blessed as wisdom amṛta,
So that all outer, inner and secret offerings
Become Samantabhadra’s vast, miraculous display.
sarvapūjā samaya hoḥ
Hrīḥ.  From emptiness endowed with the three aspects of liberation,
Toward all unrealized, deluded sentient beings,
Non-referential great compassion shines forth.
The extent of space is the realm of Lotus Light.
The immeasurable palace displays as a charnel ground,
Complete with all phenomena of total purity.
In its centre, upon a lotus, sun-, and moon-disc,
Are the demons of dependent origination produced by ignorance,
In the form of twelve poisonous snakes coiled together; above that,
Self-awareness in the form of a red hrīḥ completely transforms
Into the fearsome Vajra Wrathful One Supreme In This World. 1
His mouth open with fangs bared, he stands with two legs spread apart.
His body is red, and he wears a deep blue gown,
A tiger skirt, bone ornaments, and a splendid garland of skulls.
He wears a crown of dried skulls, and amidst his long locks of hair
A green horse's head emerges upright, topped by a red-faced garuḍa.
His right hand holds a vajra and his left holds a flaming garuḍa.
All the pores of his body
Are also filled with garuḍas that radiate out like sparks,
Pulverizing all of the eight classes of harmful beings.
He shines splendidly amidst a mass of flames of primordial wisdom.
The demons of ignorance that arise from the eight consciousnesses,
In the form of the eight great nāgas, bow trembling before him.
At the crown, throat, and heart-centre of the lord
Are the body of Mañjuśrī, the speech of the Lotus family,
And Yangdak, each holding a vajra and skull-cup filled with blood,
Marked respectively with the syllables of body, speech, and mind.
Light rays radiate from them, the mudrā of Dharma,
And the great mudrā of primordial wisdom, the apparent deities,
Are drawn in by the four mudrās of activity,
Dissolving inseparably into me, the mudrā of samaya.
e hye hi bhagavān mahā kāruṇika dṛśya hoḥ
Hūṃ. The hook of compassion summons the deities from the dharmadhātu.
The noose of loving-kindness draws them into the support, blended in a single taste.
The chains of joy bind them with the equality of method and wisdom.
The bell of equanimity utterly stabilizes them.
jaḥ hūṃ baṃ hoḥ | vajra tiṣṭha
Hūṃ. With the great mudrās of body, speech, and mind
I join into union with suchness.
Paying homage through the encounter with the deity and the view,
I bow to the expanse that is free from accepting or rejecting.
namo nama hoḥ
Hūṃ. The offerings of the six sensory objects
Are the display of the equality of objects and great bliss.
By offering medicine, torma, rakta, bodhicitta,
And union and liberation, I present the feast-offering.
rūpa śabda gandha rāsa sparśa dharmadhātu mahā pañca rakta baliṅta bodhicitta gaṇacakra pūja hoḥ
Hūṃ. The body of the wrathful guru is captivating, heroic, and fearsome.
His speech, the display of Hayagrīva, is menacing laughter, stern and ferocious.
His mind of the garuḍa of primordial wisdom is compassionate, awesome, and peaceful.
To the deity who tames all negative forces, I offer homage and praise.
At my heart-centre, surrounding a hūṃ-syllable upon a sun-disc,
The mantra-chain rotates like a firebrand,
Emitting rays of light like sparks of fire,
And emanating garuḍas like sparks, which burn all negative forces,
And resounding with the neighing cry of the horse, which shakes the entire universe.
Purifying the world and its inhabitants, the light rays dissolve into me,
Appearing as the deity in the state of the Great Mudrā.
oṃ āh hūṃ mahā guru artsik nirtsik hrīḥ hūṃ trom phaṭ
Hūṃ.  From my heart, the syllables raṃ , yaṃ and khaṃ stream out
To purify any faults or defects in the feast offerings.
Oṃ , āḥ and hūṃ transform the offerings into amṛta,
And sensual delights multiply until they are as infinite as space.
raṃ yaṃ khaṃ | oṃ āḥ hūṃ
Hūṃ. From the Unsurpassed, 2 the realm of great bliss,
From the land of Oḍḍiyāna in the west,
And especially from Cāmara’s Glorious Mountain, 3
From the sacred places and lands such as the eight charnel grounds,
All you deities of the Wrathful Guru, Hayagrīva and Garuḍa
Are invited to this feast gathering—come, we pray.
Hūṃ. Deities of the maṇḍala of the Wrathful Guru,
Ḍākinīs and Dharma guardians bound under oath,
We offer you this sumptuous feast of sensual delights.
Grant us attainments, ordinary and supreme!
gaṇacakra pūja khāhi
Hūṃ. Throughout the course of my lives without beginning,
Any transgressions of the root or branch samayas
I have committed since entering the Great Vehicle’s Secret Mantra,
With this feast offering of sensory delights, I now confess!
vajra-samaya āḥ
Hūṃ. Ignorance, karma, afflictions and dualistic grasping,
Together with their creations, ego-clinging and all rudras—
Let them be brought into this form— ṇṛ ṭṛ jaḥ! 4
Let their consciousness enter the dharmadhātu expanse— phaṭ!
And let their body be enjoyed as the feast offering.
rudra sarva hala pañca pūja khāhi
namaḥ sarva tathāgatebhayo viśva mukhebhyaḥ sarvathākhaṃ udgate spharaṇa imaṃ gagana khaṃ svāhā
Āḥ. Within the sphere of the naturally arising, spontaneously perfect body of rainbows and light-rays 5
Is the magical display of the eight collections of consciousness, the city of rākṣasas.
At my heart’s centre is the palace of the Copper-Coloured Mountain—
May the noble intentions of the great Guru, embodiment of all buddha families, be fulfilled.
The basic space of the ground, clarity and emptiness, is Samantabhadra,
Whose realization is transferred through ground-appearance, the sambhogakāya expression,
In a maṇḍala that transcends symbols, words and the conceptual mind—
May the noble intentions of the mind-direct lineage of twofold purity be fulfilled.
The sambhogakāya’s expression, spontaneously perfect and complete with fivefold certainty,
Communicates through signs to the vidyādhara assembly of pure awareness,
So that dance-like emanations continue the transmission of the mind-direct and symbolic in perfect words—
May the noble intentions of the aural lineage that brings great liberation upon hearing be fulfilled.
By conferring the empowerment of the great scrolls of coded signs
Upon the hearts of fortunate individuals with a karmic connection,
The secret treasury of realizing the intended meaning is unlocked—
May the noble intentions of the transmissions through entrustment-seal and empowerment-through-aspiration be fulfilled.
May all errors, such as parting from the all-pervasive realization
Of my own pure awareness, which is and has always been Samantabhadra,
And searching for buddhahood elsewhere, be purified,
And may I arrive at the state that is beyond activity and exertion.
Hūṃ. You who dwell on the periphery of the great maṇḍala,
Īśvarī, kiṃkara and laṅkā spirits,
Accept this remainder torma
And guard us yogins against obstacles to practice!
ucchiṣṭa baliṃ te khāhi
Hūṃ. Rise up, all you deities of the Wrathful Guru!
Take form out of the dharmadhātu! 6
Crush any obstacles to our attainment of awakening!
Halt the decline of the elements in the environment and beings!
Heal any weakness of the channels, wind-energies and authentic presence! 7
And cause our practice to bear fruit!
Hūṃ. Samantabhadra, you transcend the three times.
In the naturally pure realm of The Unsurpassed,
You, the teacher, in the presence of the retinue of the three seats of completeness,
Turned the wheel of the extremely secret, indestructible Dharma.
The three realms of the gods who are free from clinging to phenomena as real 8
Are proclaimed as the places from where the classes of tantra originate.
In the perception of fortunate, emanated beings, the teachings of mantra
Appear naturally. On one such occasion,
Within the self-appearing pure realm of the dharmadhātu,
The mind of the glorious Rangjung Dorje 9
Was blessed by the Great Guru of Uḍḍiyāna.
The essence of the nine profundities free from granting or receiving
Was revealed as this inexhaustible treasure. Immediately,
Delusions were purified in the ground.
In keeping with these auspicious circumstances, carry out the activities!
Hūṃ. You who obey the command of the Awesome One and protect Tibet,
Twelve Tenma Goddesses—mothers and sisters—
Come! Accept this cleansing water of the torma,
And carry out the activities entrusted to you!
Hūṃ. In this maṇḍala of the Wrathful Guru, Hayagrīva and Garuḍa,
All the corrupting spirits of samaya violation
Are held beneath the seal of the nine vehicles.
Let them never rise again!
stvaṃ bhaya nen
Hoḥ. Right now, this very morning, the samayas of the wrathful practice have been fulfilled!
Now the time has come to grant us the accomplishments!
From the maṇḍala of the non-abiding, primordial wisdom,
Grant us the union with your enlightened body, speech and mind, and the ten powers and strengths—
Now, this very instant!
oṃ āh hūṃ mahā guru artsik nirtsik hrīḥ hūṃ trom phaṭ
vajra-kāya-vākka-citta-siddhi-phala hoḥ
Hūṃ, In the maṇḍala of the Wrathful Guru, Hayagrīva and Garuḍa,
If my offerings were incomplete, my practice inattentive,
Or my meditation drowsy, dull or lifeless,
Pray forgive all such error and confusion.
oṃ vajrasattva…etc.
Hoḥ. Just like bubbles formed out of water,
The deities of the self-emanated maṇḍala
Dissolve into wisdom’s basic space— vajra muḥ!
In post-meditation, everything arises as the deity’s illusory form.
Hoḥ. All sources of virtue accumulated in the three times,
I dedicate as the cause for realizing primordial omniscience.
May I and all those assembled here
Attain enlightenment together, in a single maṇḍala!
Hoḥ. Through the blessing of the lineage of vidyādharas,
The truth of the Three Rare and Sublime Ones,
And the interdependent circumstances of profound Secret Mantra,
May all be auspicious, to pacify the eight fears! 11
May all be auspicious, for extending longevity and merit!
May all be auspicious, to bring perception under our control!
May all be auspicious, to annihilate negative, misleading forces!
With all attachment to perception transformed and perfected as the form of the deity,
All sound purified into the great bliss of mantra,
All thoughts matured into the luminosity of dharmakāya—
May all be auspicious, so that we attain the translucent rainbow body!