The Foundation of All Qualities
The foundation of all qualities is the gracious guru;
And to rely upon him or her correctly is the root of the path.
Inspire us to understand this well and rouse our energies,
So that we may follow with the greatest respect!
Inspire us so that we may realize how this excellent support,
With its once-found freedoms, is so rare and momentous;
And let us always be determined, day and night,
To make the most of this precious opportunity!
Let us remember that life and limb are as transient and ephemeral
As bubbles in water: death, the destroyer, approaches swiftly;
And after death the results of positive and negative actions
Will accompany us, just as a shadow follows the body.
Inspire us so that we may gain firm conviction in this,
And remain always conscientious:
Avoiding even the slightest harmful actions,
While cultivating every form of virtue!
Inspire us to see the shortcomings of mundane pleasures,
Which only disappoint, lead to every form of suffering
And cannot be relied upon;
Instead let us enthusiastically pursue the bliss of liberation!
Inspire us so that, motivated by this pure intention,
With mindfulness, vigilance and conscientiousness,
We may take to heart the pratimokṣa vows,
Which are the very root of the teachings.
Just as we have fallen into the ocean of existence,
All other beings, our very own past mothers, have too—
Inspire us to see this and to master supreme bodhicitta,
And to take responsibility for liberating all beings.
Inspire us to see that even if we develop the intention,
Unless we train in the three types of ethical discipline,
We will not attain awakening, and thus to apply ourselves
With great energy to upholding the bodhisattva vows.
Inspire us to calm distraction towards the erroneous,
And to enquire correctly into the genuine nature,
So that we may swiftly generate within our minds
The path that perfectly unites tranquility and insight.
Inspire us, so that having trained in the common path
And become suitable vessels, we may easily set out
On the sublime approach of fortunate individuals
And enter the Vajrayāna, supreme among vehicles.
At that time, inspire us with unfeigned certainty
In the teaching that pure vows and commitment
Are the basis for attaining two types of siddhi ,
And let us guard them even at the risk of our lives.
Then, inspire us, so that having realized they key points
Of the two stages, which are the essence of the tantras,
We may never waver from the yoga of the four sessions
And practise according to the noble guru's instructions.
Thus, may you inspire us with your blessings,
So that the spiritual guides who reveal the excellent path
And companions who practise authentically may live long,
And all outer and inner obstacles may be fully pacified!
In all our lives, may we never be separated from genuine gurus,
May we enjoy the splendour of the Dharma,
And by perfecting the qualities of the paths and stages,
May we swiftly attain the level of Vajradhara!