The Hook Which Invokes the Blessings A Supplication to the Life and Liberation of Rigdzin Jalü Dorje
Emaho!
The Primordial Protector, Küntuzangpo, the Buddha of Unchanging Light,
Who arises as the appearing-radiance of the gathering of the five wisdoms;
Transforming into the dance of compassion, the nirmāṇakāya that tames beings
And is indivisible from the three kāyas, Lord Amitāyus,
The embodiment of compassion, noble and supreme Holder of the White Lotus (Avalokiteśvara),
The Lake Born Nirmāṇakāya (Padmasambhava), who appears in response to beings,
Lord of the Family, Vajrasattva, hero Garab Dorje,
And the inseparable Guru Tötrengtsel, I supplicate.
For the sake of those to be tamed, the red-faced Tibetans,
You filled the whole of Tibet from center to its borders with treasures.
I supplicate you and your emanated heart-disciples, the king and subjects,
Who opened the gateway to those profound treasures.
Currently, unbearable suffering is greatly increasing
For all sentient beings of the final five-hundred-year period.
During this time, I supplicate the supreme, single-embodied emanation
Of Drimé Özer, Garab Dorje, Pema Jungné, and Vimalamitra.
You entered the womb never wavering from samādhi.
Three days after your birth, you roamed among the assembly of ḍākinīs,
And when you were ten months old, you received empowerment from them—
I supplicate the naturally arisen nirmāṇakāya.
At the age of the two, in Zangdokpelri (the Copper-Coloured Mountain), the realm of the awareness-holders,
You beheld the prominent nirmāṇakāya who conferred empowerment and blessings upon you—
I supplicate the one who is always watched over
By the heroes and ḍākinīs of all the noble families.
Recalling your previous lives, you searched for your lama, the Lord of the Family, 1
Who lovingly and compassionately accepted you [as a disciple].
Victorious over the hordes of demons, your potential as a Dharma Lord was brought forth—
I supplicate the one whose auspicious connections ripened on time.
From a young age, with the sadness born from renunciation,
You continuously saw daily appearances as an illusory dream,
And at night you mingled the kāyas and the spheres of rainbow light—
I supplicate the one whose previous karma ripened on time.
When you reached twelve, you entered the path of generation and completion [stage practices].
During the day, you received oral instructions of the Lama, the Lord of the Family,
And during the night the heroes and ḍākinīs symbolically transmitted [the teachings]
By which you traversed the stages and paths in an instant— I supplicate you.
When you reached fourteen, you obtained an inventory of treasures.
By the compassion of the Lama and the blessings of Orgyen (Guru Rinpoche),
You had the authority over earth and wisdom-mind treasures—
I supplicate the one who has the command of the secret ḍākinī treasury.
When you reached nineteen, having mastered the generation and completion phases of maturation and liberation,
You obtained permission from the Lord of the Family.
Once again, in keeping with the prophecy of the heroes and ḍākinīs,
You maintained the yogic observances—I supplicate you.
You attained the supreme accomplishment of the lama and deity
And defeated the attacks of unruly demons by completing the approach and accomplishment [stages of deity practice],
And by burning, suppressing, and casting away [as found in those practices]—
I supplicate you, Yeshe Rölpa’i Dorje (Vajra of Primordial-Wisdom Display).
You obtained the subtle, yogic mudrā of the generation phase,
Perfected the qualities of the ten signs of the completion stage,
And held the pure vital-essence in the central channel—
I supplicate the supreme and accomplished Awareness-Holder.
By the [practice] of Cutting Through ( trekchö ), you mixed appearances and mind, thus destroying subject-object grasping.
Relying on the [energy] waves, you beheld the resulting suchness.
Through the [practice] of Direct Crossing ( tögel ), the experiences and visions were increased to their perfect culmination—
I supplicate Trülzhig Jalü Dorje (Indestructible Rainbow Body that Dismantles Delusion).
In the experiential appearances of the clear light of dreams,
You abided in the Tiers of Bliss and other celestial and terrestrial realms.
You roamed among the assembly of awareness-holders, heroes, and ḍākinīs—
I supplicate at the feet of Traktung Pawo (Blood Drinking Hero).
Although you did not study the conventional fields of knowledge,
You completely unraveled the chakra of the Wheel of Enjoyment
By the great bliss of the innate, primordial wisdom—
I supplicate Dewa’i Dorje Pel (Glorious, Blissful Vajra).
You seized the royal seat of the essential Dharmakāya;
Still, you performed deeds to tame impure beings
According to their devotion, intelligence, and common perceptions—
I supplicate at the feet of Tutob Pawo (Hero of Power and Strength).
To benefit the fortunate ones of the highest capacity,
You properly taught the cycle without letters, the pith instructions of the hearing lineage,
The doctrine of The Extremely Secret Heart-Essence of the Formless Ḍākinīs . 2
I supplicate the teacher of the path of the rainbow body of light.
With great love and compassion, you held limitless beings,
Both those with form and those without form,
And, directly and indirectly, ushered them through the gates of maturation and liberation—
I supplicate the one who enacts the robust deeds of a perfected buddha.
We who have become your disciples
Are enveloped in the darkness of the intense sufferings of karma and afflictions.
We are blind to the qualities of your three secrets, so difficult to fathom,
And the view that would guide us.
By the power of negative karma, we are conflicted with doubt and wrong views
And overpowered by the demonic masses of wrong aspirations.
Our root and branch samayas have deteriorated, been transgressed, and torn apart.
With fervent, heartfelt regret, we pray for forgiveness.
Influenced by ignorance and its close friend, wrong views,
I have abused and slandered,
And intentionally demonstrated impure behavior in the presence of those without faith.
I have given rise to doubt and have amassed negative connections,
And because of this, I have not realized your unfathomable and all-subsuming enlightened mind.
I have opposed your command, upset and disturbed your mind, proclaimed faults,
And have diminished my pure perception that sees all that the master does as good.
By remembering your qualities, I pray for forgiveness.
Now, by the blessings transferred from the wisdom-mind of the guru,
My negative karma and habitual tendencies are diminished.
Thus, from my heart, I vow not to hold onto wrong concepts,
And I pray you lovingly hold me close.
Protector, you hide your qualities and display faults,
So that we impure sentient beings are fooled.
For the karmically fortunate beings under the sway of doubt,
Please reveal your unfathomable qualities.
The vajra body is not subject to decay or decline;
Yet I pray that your life reaches its fullest extent, so that you fully accomplish the benefit of beings;
And thereafter, until cyclic existence is emptied,
Please act to benefit beings through a myriad of emanations.
By the fruit of this one-pointed supplication,
May I perfectly serve you and fully benefit beings.
Having done so, may the defilements and habitual tendencies be completely exhausted;
May I perfect the four visions and attain the rainbow body!
By this virtue, may sentient beings’ ocean of suffering dry up.
May they recognize the reflexive awareness, the essence of the Sugata.
May the fruit of emptiness-bodhicitta ripen!
May they be assured in the realms of the victors of the three kāyas!