The Lotus of Faith A Supplication to the Successive Lives of Shechen Rabjam
Namo guru!
You perfected the four aspirations 1 and blaze with the majesty of the two accumulations,
Aśokaśrī, sugata of the south-easterly buddhafield,
You who pacify the three poisons of infinite beings,
Protector for all throughout the reaches of space, I supplicate you.
At the peak of Mount Malaya, you received from Vajrapāṇi, Holder of Secrets,
The teachings of the Great Secret, mind mandate of Samantabhadra,
And, realising it perfectly, became its custodian—
Yakṣa Ulkāmukha (Karda Dong), I supplicate you.
Magical, illusory manifestation of Mañjuśrītikṣṇa,
Great spiritual friend who held the transmission of the Sugata Body 2
And arranged the teachings of the naturally luminous Great Perfection into three sections— 3
Mañjuśrīmitra, I supplicate you.
To house the sacred relics of the Teacher,
You built eighty-four thousand stūpas in this world
And successfully sustained and spread his teachings—
Great illuminator, Aśoka, I supplicate you.
Born into the family of the king and guided by Padmasambhava,
You honoured sublime lotsāwas and paṇḍitas, supported Dharma translation,
And wrote an edict to promote the ten virtuous deeds—
Prince Senalek, I supplicate you.
You followed Padmasambhava, reached a lofty stage of accomplishment,
And translated various tantric scriptures, such as the Do and Magical Display, 4
Genuine lotsāwa,
Monk of Ma, Rinchen Chok, I supplicate you. 5
The direct disciple of Śāntarakṣita, regent of the Muni,
A paṇḍita who used scripture and reasoning to eradicate
Impurity from the Buddha's teaching in the Land of Snows— 6
Kamalaśīla, at your feet I supplicate.
You followed Hevajra Lotsāwa 7 and became
An accomplished yogin of Mahāmudrā, an ornament of the practice lineage's teaching,
And crown jewel among hundreds of practitioners in the Land of Snow,
Lordly Milarepa Shepé Dorje, at your feet I supplicate.
With the light of intelligence you discerned all that can be known,
With loving compassion you cared for countless disciples,
And your reputation for learning and righteousness spread far and wide—
Great Rongtön, 8 at your feet I supplicate.
Holder of the transmission of profound termas, master of Dzogchen and Mahāmudrā,
Dharma-king of Drikung, who, with wrathful Mañjuśrī’s roar,
Overpowered all those whose attachment was misplaced—
Rinchen Puntsok, 9 at your feet I supplicate.
You perfected the practice of approach and accomplishment from Orgyenpa and the early Kagyü tradition, 10
And, cherishing the life of a yogin, displayed miracles
That brought Nepalis and Tibetans to the Dharma—
Ü-nyön Heruka, 11 I supplicate you.
The sun of Mañjuśrī’s intelligence arose in your mind,
And, with the lion's roar of reasoning and scriptural citation,
You outshone those who harboured wrong views—master of learning and spiritual accomplishment,
Rabjampa Tenpé Gyaltsen, 12 at your feet I supplicate.
With the nine qualities of a sublime being, 13 you held the supreme teachings of the definitive secret,
And, with your wise and loving activity, spread them far and wide—
Sun of the teachings of Samantabhadra,
Nampar Gyalwa of Shechen, 14 at your feet I supplicate.
Pure in the three higher trainings, 15 a veritable treasure of knowledge, love and ability,
With the nectar of maturation and liberation, you brought hosts of fortunate disciples
To spiritual maturity—awareness-holder of the definitive meaning,
Paljor Gyatso, 16 at your feet I supplicate.
Prophesied by the master of Oḍḍiyāna as the owner of profound termas,
You engaged in yogic conduct and revealed hidden lands.
Lord of the dance, whose yogic conduct arose from deep confidence in the creation and completion phases,
Chökyi Gyaltsen, 17 at your feet I supplicate.
Guided by Mañjuśrī-Yamāntaka,
Your altruistic activities, through the four means of gathering disciples, were inconceivable, 18
And, having perceived the unchanging truth, you brought benefit to all with a connection—
Kunzang Tenpé Nyima, 19 I supplicate you.
A friend, who through the magnificent conduct of a bodhisattva,
Caused the precious teachings of Buddha to illuminate this world,
Accomplished vajra holder, subduer of the difficult-to-tame,
Tenpé Nima, 20 at your feet I supplicate.
Through the kindness of the gentle protector Rabsel Dawa, 21
Treasure lord and unbiased protector of the teachings and beings,
You became an excellent repository of the accomplishment and explanation of the Ancient Translations of definite freedom—
Chökyi Senge, 22 at your feet I supplicate.
Through the power of making this supplication with unshakeable devotion,
May I be guided by the sublime protectors of this garland-like succession of lives
And through serving them well through the three means of gratification, 23
Grant your blessings, so that all my wishes and the twofold aims may be spontaneously fulfilled.