Prayer to Invoke the Wisdom Mind of the Gentle Protector Sakya Paṇḍita
Oṃ svasti!
All the victorious ones throughout the ten directions
Who intend to benefit innumerable sentient beings,
And especially the foremost bodhisattva Mañjughoṣa,
Manifest as the authentic guru, to whom I pay homage.
These days, as most beings are corrupted by the taints
Of the degenerate age and wander far from the genuine path,
Fooling themselves, forsaking their own interests for this and future lives—
Protect me from such a plight, O Gentle Protector, noble guru!
The elements of the outer world are unstable and fluctuate greatly,
Beings who inhabit the world know much unhappiness and misery,
For these realms which are so affected by various forms of karma,
Grant some relief, I pray, O Gentle Protector, noble guru!
In this land in the past those possessing the vision of Dharma,
Were well cared for by great emanated translators and scholars
Such as yourself through the two ‘wheels’ of Buddhist teachings, 1
And everyone’s happiness, wealth and prosperity increased.
But now beings are deceived by mundane concerns,
And those who’ve entered the teachings are lost in undharmic deeds.
As we lack the protection of the gods of positivity,
We’re worn down, beset by illness, conflict and famine.
Therefore, inspire us, the beings of this time,
when the five degenerations are so rife, to turn our minds towards the Dharma.
Prevent the arising of obstacles to Dharma practice,
And bless us with the accomplishment of our own and others’ aims.
If your pledge to watch over all the beings of former times
Who lacked protection was a sincere and stable one,
Why not look upon me too, as I repeatedly recall you
Like a child desperately missing his mother.
Even though I turn to you, precious guru, in my mind,
Like someone plagued by thirst and longing for water,
Still I am untouched by your compassion’s radiance.
O protector, why have you forsaken me?
From now until I reach the essence of awakening,
Guru, Dharma lord, as I follow in your footsteps,
Help me to learn the infinite dharmas to be known
And to master twofold bodhicitta, I implore you.
At this time of the degenerate age, let the community of the saṅgha,
Which is capable of preserving the precious teachings of Buddha
Though the two activities of teaching and practice, fill the entire world,
And let everyone devote their entire lives to the Dharma, I pray.
Through the activities of invalidation and guidance,
Perfectly inspired by an approach of factual reasoning
Based on all the textual traditions of sūtra and mantra in the noble land,
May the minds of all beings be turned towards the Dharma.
May the rule of dharma-protecting kings endure,
The lives of dharma-holders remain secure, and their activities flourish,
And, through the positive dawn of a new golden era,
May everyone throughout this temperate land have lasting happiness.
May I, during this degenerate age, serve to continue your activity,
Extending it, O protector, to the farthest reaches in every direction.
May all my connections be meaningful and inspire virtue in others, 2
And may my own activity be of service to the Buddha’s teachings.