Prayer for the Future of the Dharma
To the buddhas: Vipaśyin, Śikhin, Viśvabhū,
Krakucchanda, Kanakamuni, and Kāśyapa,
And Śākyamuni—Gautama, deity of all deities,
To the seven warrior-like buddhas, I pay homage!
“In the past, to benefit beings,
I bore all kinds of hardship,
And gave up my own happiness, through this
May the teachings blaze, long into the future!
“In the past, for the sake of the sick,
I gave my life away;
So, to protect the needy and the poor,
May the teachings blaze, long into the future!
“By my giving up sons, daughters, and wives,
Riches and elephants and chariots,
For the sake of the treasure of enlightenment,
May the teachings blaze, long into the future!
“Through the offerings I made to the buddhas, pratyekabuddhas,
Śrāvakas, male and female,
And to the great sages,
May the teachings blaze, long into the future!
“Through the sufferings I endured
For many millions of aeons,
Seeking instruction for the sake of enlightenment,
May the teachings blaze, long into the future!
“Through my conduct of discipline,
And age-long asceticism,
And my offerings to the buddhas of ten directions,
May the teachings blaze, long into the future!
“Through my diligence in the past,
Constantly stable, and overcoming others’ disruption;
So as to liberate all beings,
May the teachings blaze, long into the future!
“Through my constant practice of patience
And my tolerance of beings’ harmful acts
Caused by the degeneration of their negative emotions,
May the teachings blaze, long into the future!
“Through my concentration, perfect freedoms, 2 formless absorptions,
And samādhis as many as the grains of sand in the river Ganges—
Through the power of my meditation,
May the teachings blaze, long into the future!
“Through seeking wisdom in the past,
By practising austerities in the forest,
And teaching countless śāstras to others,
May the teachings blaze, long into the future!
“Through giving, out of love, my flesh and blood,
Giving my life away entirely,
And giving arms and legs and every part of my body,
May the way of the Dharma flourish and expand!
“In the past, with loving kindness, I caused
Harmful sentient beings to mature completely,
And I led them to the three vehicles; through this
May the gift of Dharma thrive and grow!
“In the past, with skilful means and wisdom,
I liberated sentient beings from perverse views,
And led them to the correct view; through this
May the Dharma increase in every way!
“With the four means of attracting disciples, 3
I released beings from the fire of the emotions,
And vanquished rampant negativity; through this
May my followers remain, long into the future!
“I freed tīrthikas and others
From the rivers of different views,
And led them to the correct view; through this
May my followers always have devotion!
May the teachings blaze, long into the future!”