The Mahāguru Prayer
Namo Guru: homage to the Guru!
Mahā Guru, bless me
That in all my lives to come,
In the palace in your pure land,
Inseparable from you, master, I will always be.
And with zeal and devotion,
I will serve you and please you,
And receive the transmission of your nectar-like blessing:
Your profound realization, the very essence of your wisdom mind.
Let the blessing of your enlightened body, speech and mind,
Ripen my own body, speech and mind,
So that I gain mastery over the profound
Generation and completion stages.
May I eliminate completely the demons of wrong views,
Along with illness, harmful influence and obstacles,
And may good companions and resources multiply,
So that my wishes are all fulfilled, just as I desire.
In charnel grounds, hermitages, retreats amid the snows,
And other secluded places with all perfect qualities,
Let the quintessence of deep samādhi meditation
Be my constant practice.
And as the result of this practice,
May I accomplish the four activities,
Turn even gods and rākṣasas into my servants,
And so be able to protect the teachings of Buddha.
May all the sublime teachings taught by Buddha
Appear, with no effort, within my mind;
And, through mastering supreme knowledge such as this,
May I attain supreme realization.
Through bodhicitta’s causes and conditions,
May I reach and magnetize every single living being,
And through the power of my actions, unbounded like a wish-granting gem,
May any connection we have be of deepest benefit and meaning.
May I cause the teachings of Buddha to spread,
So that lineage holders and teachers of Dharma increase,
All beings are brought to bliss,
And all realms are purified into buddha fields.
From my body, speech and mind,
Let infinite emanations appear,
To benefit each of those to be trained,
Every one according to their needs.
May I realize the entirety of saṃsāra and nirvāṇa
Is your manifestation, Guru, inseparable from you,
And by understanding the three kāyas to be forever indivisible,
May I swiftly attain the omniscience of buddhahood.
May sentient beings offer their prayers,
May the masters grant their blessings,
May yidam deities grant attainments,
May ḍākinīs grant predictions,
May Dharma protectors dispel obstacles,
May the Buddha’s teaching spread and grow,
May all beings enjoy happiness and well-being,
May they live out the Dharma day and night,
May our own and others’ aims be spontaneously accomplished.
Through this merit, pure by its very nature,
Let saṃsāra’s depths, the lower realms, be emptied,
So no longer we remain in this ocean of existence,
But actualize the three kāyas, together—all as one.
Great secret treasure of all the buddhas,
Supreme, unsurpassed teaching of Dzogpachenpo,
Like a sun rising in the sky,
Shine and spread through the entire world!
May this merit and my other roots of virtue grow,
So that I embody all the precious qualities that fulfil the wishes of the perfect master,
I possess the power to spread and expand the Buddha’s precious teachings,
I realize ultimate wisdom, love and capacity, and so become perfectly enlightened,
And all sentient beings in the six realms are freed from saṃsāra’s great ocean of suffering, and quickly attain complete and perfect buddhahood.