Wellspring of Bounty for the Fortunate A Guru Yoga of the Three Family Lords Refuge and Bodhicitta Visualization Seven Branches Prayer Receiving Empowerment
Namaḥ śrīmāṃ gurave! 1
In the glorious guru who embodies all buddhas,
I and all beings take refuge until awakening.
To achieve, for others’ sake, Vajradhara’s state in this life,
I will train in the heart-practice of the profound path.
I am present as the deity in the centre of a pure realm.
In the sky before me is the palace of great liberation,
Beautifully decorated, enchanting in design.
At its heart, are three seats of jewels, silks, lotuses, and moon discs.
On the central seat is Avalokiteśvara in essence,
Appearing as Chokgyur Dechen Lingpa, the tamer of beings.
With peaceful smile, he wears a lotus hat, cloak, and gown.
In both hands he holds white lotus stems in the granting-protection mudrā.
On the seat to the right is Mañjuśrī in essence,
Appearing as Pema Ösel Dongak Lingpa, 2
Wearing monastic robes and lotus hat, victorious in all directions.
His two hands hold utpala flowers that bear a sword and a scripture.
On the seat to the left is Lord of Secrets 3 in essence,
Appearing as Chimé Tennyi Yungdrung Lingpa, 4
Holding vajra and bell, the unity of means and wisdom.
All three are resplendent with the majesty of great wisdom
As they gaze with their referenceless compassion on all those to be freed.
They are present in person just as envisioned in the mind.
To the glorious guru—embodiment of the three families,
Essence of all refuge objects, the Three Jewels, and three roots—
I prostrate with devotion of body, speech, and mind.
I offer my body, possessions, and all roots of virtue
As Samantabhadra offering clouds, billowing, bountiful.
With heartfelt remorse, I confess all misdeeds and downfalls,
Whether they be broken pledges or natural wrongs.
I rejoice with great delight in all the virtue
Accumulated by noble and ordinary beings.
Grant constantly, I pray, the sacred nectar of the Dharma
Of the Three Vehicles in general, and the Unexcelled in particular.
For the sake of all beings, I pray that your physical body
Remains forever steadfast, never passing into nirvāṇa.
All the virtue of the three times, exemplified by this,
I dedicate to the attainment of the guru’s awakened state.
Noble Damdzin Cholö 5 , hear me!
You are Avalokiteśvara in person, one with Padmasambhava,
Manifest in nirmāṇakāya form as Chokgyur Lingpa.
I pray to you with deep, unwavering longing.
Make natural love and compassion dawn within me!
Pacify all obstacles and pitfalls to awakening!
Bless me that I may perfect the vast conduct of a bodhisattva
And thereby accomplish the twofold goal of self and others!
Youthful Mañjuśrī, Mañjuśrīmitra,
And Dharma King Tri Songdetsen, willingly re-emanating
As Jamyang Khyentse, all-knowing lord of this world,
I pray to you with deep, unwavering longing.
Dispel the darkness of ignorance; dispel the two obscurations;
Make the lotus of universal knowledge bloom within my mind;
And bless me that, manifesting the twofold wisdom of nature and extent,
I may thereby accomplish the state of complete omniscience!
All-pervading Vajrasattva, Lord of Secrets,
Translator Vairocana, wisdom’s illusory dance,
The gentle guardian guru, Lodrö Tayé—
I pray to you with deep, unwavering longing.
Unravel the tight knots of partiality and bias;
Make me realize the profound secret, its words and meaning, precisely;
And, through the supreme practice of the fearless yogic disciplines,
Bless me that I may attain the state of Vajradhara in this life!
Through fulfilling the nine ways of pleasing you—
The gurus who, in essence, are the three family lords—
Without the slightest transgression or briefest moment of wrong view,
May my mind merge with your wisdom-hearts, may I emulate your liberating examples,
And may I cross to the far shore of wisdom, power, and compassion!
In particular, in the Lotus-Covered Realm,
May I be accepted by bodhisattva Lotus Essence,
And, in the future, in his Immaculate Noble Realm,
May I engage in bodhisattva conduct at his feet, the All-Seeing Protector! 6
May I meet the golden-age buddha, Vairocana in person,
And obtain the prophecy of great awakening!
Their compassion invoked through the power of devotion,
The gurus dissolve into spheres of white, red, and dark blue light.
The white light in the centre dissolves into my crown; the red light on the right dissolves into my throat;
And the dark blue light on the left dissolves into my heart.
My three gates’ obscurations are purified, the three vajras’ blessings flood into me,
And my body, speech, and mind become inseparable from the three secrets.
Empty-awareness beyond conceptual mind is dharmakāya self-arisen,
The ultimate guru, the great seal of primordial perfection.
May I actualize this natural state, spontaneously and without effort,
And thus may I dredge the three realms of saṃsāra from their depths!