Aspiration to Accomplish Every Aim
Victorious ones dwelling in the ten directions and three times,
Their bodhisattva heirs and śrāvaka and pratyekabuddha arhats—
Noble assembly with your eyes of wisdom,
Bear witness to the fulfilment of this pure prayer of aspiration.
Through all the excellent deeds of past, present and future,
Represented by the sources of virtue created here
Through the gathering as a collection
Of a mere portion of the Śākya lion's teachings,
Which are present here in this Land of Snows,
Having been translated by dharma-kings, lotsāwas and paṇḍitas,
And compiled in these great volumes of the Word—
I dedicate all as a cause for the flourishing of the teachings.
In particular, may all the ‘children of the sun’ who harm the teachings 1
Be swiftly pacified and may the whole world enjoy happiness and wellbeing.
May all those sentient beings who have a connection with me
Purify all past karma, mental afflictions, and suffering.
May all benefactors, male and female, who have perished in conflict
Pacify all forms of suffering and deluded perception,
And gain an excellent form as a god or human being in the higher realms.
May all those who have taken refuge in me
Overcome all adversity and enjoy increased longevity, merit, glory and wealth.
May all that they do in thought and deed be successful
And may they perfectly accumulate great stores of merit.
May we pacify all illness, malevolent influences and harm.
May all threats of scandal, sorcery, spirits and astrological influence
From beings with form and those without form be overcome,
And may everyone remain under the protection of the Three Jewels.
In all our lives may we encounter the sacred Dharma,
And always meet authentic spiritual teachers who can guide us.
May we perfectly accumulate the components of ethical discipline
And act to serve the teachings of the Victorious One.
May the precious teachings pervade throughout the world.
May the great beings who uphold these teachings live long.
May those who are hostile towards the teachings be overcome like grass in a wildfire,
And may all be auspicious for the teachings to spread throughout the ten directions.