The Magical Lasso A Prayer of Aspiration to Accomplish Khecara
Emaho!
All phenomena which appear, resound, and pass through the mind
Are the appearances of the charming goddess,
Who magically displays as anything whatsoever:
To the reflexive awareness of the Great Seal Mahāmudrā, I bow down.
Through the vajra mind, which has neither beginning nor end
And which pervades the whole of saṃsāra and nirvāṇa,
You manifest in untold ways for those who are bound and set free—
Assembly of deities, please consider me!
Throughout beginningless time,
I have been plagued by my [mental] entanglements,
And the intractable lasso of karma and afflictions has tightened around me,
As I wander through the destitute abodes of saṃsāra.
Now my mind is tortured by fear,
So from the depth of my heart, I take refuge in you,
For there are no principal protectors other than you,
The sources of refuge!
Tears flood from my despairing eyes;
I cry out in sorrow and sigh deeply;
And an unbearable melancholy arises from within;
Can you not perceive this supplication of mine?
Alas, I have been thinking of you
Uninterruptedly, day and night.
And so, will you not compassionately consider
My yearning hope for refuge?
In this bottomless and boundless ocean,
When its inhabitants are oppressed by fear,
If you do not provide respite and encouragement,
What is the use of your compassion?
As I have engaged in your practice for a long time,
Sole mother goddess,
Will you not deign to reveal just a tiny portion of
Your exquisite face that resembles the sky?
This tight collar of karma and mental afflictions,
If you do not swiftly act to sever it
With the beneficial sword of compassion,
Would this not undermine your sacred commitments?
When even in your previous lives,
You were once deluded like me;
If, through unawareness and carelessness of my three doors,
I make mistakes, there is no need to be upset.
How could the excellent nature arise
In such a filthy leather bag [as this body]?
Compassionate one, for this reason,
Please be patient with the mistakes I have made!
Bless me so that I may be benefitted
By whatever manifestations are appropriate,
From the maṇḍalas of Three Root deities
Down to expressions of inanimate form!
As all things which visibly appear
Arise as the display of the lovely and beautiful goddess,
Whose mere glance is enchanting;
Please bless me that the great bliss blazes forth!
As all sounds, whether natural or deliberately produced,
Manifest as the wheel of mantra—sound and emptiness,
Please bless me so that the power of
The indivisibility of prāṇa and mantra arises!
Let whatever conceptual patterns arise, all appearances,
Dissipate without being anticipated or pursued;
And as I allow them to rest in their own place, so that they are liberated in the dharmakāya,
Please bless me so that realisation may blaze forth!
May all ḍākinīs of the three worlds
Be summoned irresistibly as companions;
Please bless me that they may grant the attainments
That fulfil the hopes within my mind!
Let the ocean of oath-bound ones, without exception,
Clear away all adversity and obstacles.
Please bless me that they may accomplish, without hindrance,
The infinite array of the four types of enlightened activity!
Let the variety of good and bad conditions
Arise as the ornament of one taste.
Please bless me to practice the yogic conduct
In which there is no preference for cultivating or rejecting.
As appearances arise as the dynamic expression of emptiness,
And emptiness is ascertained as dependent arising itself,
Please bless me [to attain] the Great Perfection
And merge into the great, freely resting union.
The great primordial purity of space-awareness
And the spontaneously accomplished manifestation of dynamic energy, Leaping Over—
Please bless me that I may practice the excellent path
That does not stray into favouring one practice over another.
First, the vision of dharmatā arises,
Then, the visions extend in all directions,
Finally, everything dissolves into space;
Please bless me to reach the state of liberation!
In the naturally manifesting buddha-fields of Akaniṣṭha
And places where all ḍākinīs of the three worlds gather,
Supreme holy sites, such as Pemokö,
Please bless me to attend to beings’ benefit!
Please bless me that I may tame
All beings of lesser fortune, however many there are,
Those whom all the victorious ones of the three times
Are incapable of taming directly!
Please bless me that I may carry out the benefit of beings,
Tirelessly and without discouragement,
Without my actions waxing and waning,
Until space itself fades away!
May all those who see or hear me,
Or even merely recall my name,
Be delivered from the depths of saṃāra’s three realms.
Bless me that I may simultaneously liberate them all!
Bless me to train those whose minds are altruistic,
As well as those with feelings of indifference,
And especially those who would disparage others,
Or abuse them and expose their hidden faults.
The beings whose mind streams are sullied by the intense three poisons,
And those who experience the suffering of the three lower realms,
And in particular the suffering of the intermediate state;
Please bless me so that I may tame them all!
Please bless me so that my mind may be of one taste
With the enlightened wisdom mind of Vidyādhara Padmasambhava,
And I may thereby accomplish the two aims
Through conduct that is comparable to his life of liberation!
If I do not seize
The citadel [of enlightenment] in this life,
Then, when I reach the moment of death,
May you all come back to welcome me.
May you clearly reveal the maṇḍala of your face,
Bestow the elucidation of your comforting speech,
Embrace me with your compassion of love, affection, and friendliness,
And lead me to the great bliss of luminosity.
When the terrors of the intermediate state arise
As deluded perception solidifies,
Be a welcome in front, a support behind, and an assistance all around.
Keep all delusions in their own place!
If I am not liberated in the intermediate state,
May I be born on the stem of a lotus
In various emanated pure lands,
And may I obtain a body endowed with the marks of enlightenment!
Through the limitless gates of meditative absorption,
Including the divine eye, clairvoyance, retention, and eloquence,
May my mind stream become abundantly enriched,
And may I gain mastery over the four kinds of enlightened activity!
May I not fall victim to harm from the four elements,
And may I accomplish the deathless vajra-body,
And thus complete the paths and stages of maturation and liberation
Of the Vajrayāna yoga!
In brief, may the ocean of ḍākinīs grant their blessings,
That I may accomplish
All that is beneficial to myself and others
In all circumstances without ever wavering!
Through the accumulation of virtue gathered throughout the three times,
And in particular, the power of the truth of the inconceivable compassion
Of the Three Roots and the assembly of the deities,
May these aspirations be swiftly accomplished!
Although dharmatā is inconceivable,
The truth never changes,
Since the dependent arising of conditioned phenomena is infallible;
Thus, may any aspirations I have formulated be accomplished!