A Brief Consecration Ritual for Representations of Enlightened Body, Speech and Mind The Request to Remain
In an instant, I transform into the glorious heruka.
All you obstacle makers and disruptive influences who seek to obstruct this ritual of consecration do not remain here, but go elsewhere!
vajra rakṣa rakṣa hūṃ
The space above, below and in all directions is now enclosed within a fence of vajras and a protective tent.
oṃ mahā-śūnyatā-jñāna-vajra-svabhāvātmako ’ham
Out of the state of emptiness, as the dynamic expression of illusion-like wisdom arises the infinite purity of the environment and beings manifest as the supports of our samaya in the form of the transcendent conqueror Vajradhara, blue in colour and holding a vajra and bell. He is adorned with all the marks of a saṃbhogakāya buddha, and is seated in the vajra posture. At his three centres are the three syllables oṃ, āḥ and hūṃ, from which there emanate rays of light to invoke the wisdom deities of the buddha field of Akaniṣṭha. Vajra samaya jaḥ!
oṃ vajra arghaṃ pādyaṃ puṣpe dhūpe āloke gandhe naivedye śabda pratīccha svāhā
With bodies as numerous as atoms in the universe,
And with the most intense devotion,
We offer homage and prostrations
To all those who are worthy of praise.
jaḥ hūṃ baṃ hoḥ
From the heart of the indivisible union of samayasattva and jñānasattva there emanate rays of light, which invoke the empowerment deities of the five families together with their retinues, who then bestow empowerment with:
oṃ sarva tathāgata abhiṣekate samaya śrīye hūṃ
All impurities of the body are purified. The remaining water gathers to create the crown of the five families adorning the head.
oṃ cakṣu cakṣu samanta cakṣu viśodhane svāhā
oṃ āḥ hūṃ
The visualized deities melt into light and transform their appearance into that of the various representations [of enlightened body, speech and mind].
All you buddhas and bodhisattvas who dwell throughout the ten directions, think of us!
Until all beings, as infinite as space itself, are brought to the state of perfect nirvāṇa beyond extremes, may you victorious ones remain here constantly, without passing into nirvāṇa!
In particular, may you remain here until these representations of enlightened body, speech and mind are destroyed by the four elements.
And, as you remain here, may you grant us and all other beings all the supreme and ordinary siddhis!
Remain here, one with these images and objects,
Until samsara comes to an end;
Grant us freedom from illness, long life, power and prosperity, and
Make everything supremely auspicious: we pray!
oṃ supratiṣṭha-vajraye svāhā