Guru Yoga of Rigdzin Jigme Lingpa
O Wonder! The aggregates, elements and sense sources of my body
Are spontaneously present as the essence of the three seats of completeness. 1
Within the expanse of the blossoming lotus of devotion at the centre of my heart,
Upon sun and moon-disk seats that symbolize the purification of semen and blood,
Is the face and embodiment of all the buddhas, Rigdzin Jigme Lingpa:
You are the regent endowed with the excellence of all aspects,
Dressed in white and dark-blue and with your hair in a top-knot,
Adorned with a book containing the essence of the six million verses. 2
Your beautiful body glows white with a tinge of red, and you smile peacefully.
You bring relief to those who are fatigued on the path of existence.
Perpetually you perceive the indivisible truth,
And so are seated in the posture of ‘finding comfort and ease in the nature of mind’.
Appearing yet empty, at once you are clearly present.
With devotion that is free from union or separation,
The sole path traversed by all the Bliss Gone, I pay homage!
I present undistracted mindfulness as the mudrā of offerings.
I confess my obscurations of knowable things — fixation on emptiness — in basic space.
I rejoice in the state that never wavers from meditative equipoise.
I urge you to turn the wheel of Dharma which illuminates the wisdom of clear seeing.
Please remain in the state which unites all stages and paths.
I dedicate all virtue within the youthful vase body of the all-encompassing space of reality!
Hail, hail, precious guru!
However much effort I make, it is tainted
By hopes and fears, a distracted mind and frivolous entertainment—
I am lost in the eight worldly dharmas and ordinary emotions.
The five degenerations have reached their final stage,
And under the influence of childish beings and immoral friends,
I am now overwhelmed:
Bless me so that renunciation takes birth in my mind!
Prevent me from straying, under the influence of peace and happiness,
Onto the path of the inferior vehicle,
And cause all my infinite bodhisattva acts
To become a source of benefit for beings!
The guru is the embodiment of all the buddhas:
Without succumbing to doubt or wrong views,
In this very life, may I perfect
All the qualities of the path of learning.
However much I try, liberation is difficult!
And freedom through the guru’s compassion
Can come about only as a result of devotion.
Thus, may your wisdom and my mind merge as one!
oṃ āḥ guru abhayadvīpa siddhi hūṃ 3
From the white oṃ , red āḥ and blue hūṃ at the guru’s three centres,
Light radiates out and dissolves into my own three places.
My body, speech and mind and obscurations of knowable things are purified.
I receive the four empowerments, and his wisdom and my mind merge as one.
I realize the four kāyas and see the true face of the guru—
Spontaneously perfect, co-emergent great bliss and the natural emptiness of mind.