Aspiration Prayer of the Ultimate Definitive Meaning
Oṃ! Let there be auspiciousness!
In all my lifetimes, may the three trainings, the three precepts, and all my tantric commitments be completely pure without blemishes!
May my bodily postures, yogic gaze, and all of the extremely fine vital winds and mind internally cease, naturally cease, perpetually cease, and greatly cease!
May the entirety of ordinary awareness swiftly cease so that all beings may benefit from swiftly realizing pristine awareness!
May ordinary awareness as the universal ground swiftly cease so that the great bliss which is pristine awareness as the universal ground magnificently pervading space is swiftly realized!
May the pristine awareness which arises extrinsically swiftly come about so that the naturally manifesting pristine awareness magnificently pervading space is swiftly realized!
May all conceptual imputations swiftly cease so that all beings may benefit from swiftly realizing what is perfectly established!
May all incidental obscurations swiftly cease so that beings as vast as space may benefit from swiftly realizing their enlightened essence!
May all external and internal obscurations swiftly cease so that passing beyond into the other supreme state of a primordial Buddha is swiftly realized!
May all enduring defilements totally cease so that all beings may benefit from realizing every quality of the Middle Way!
May all defiled incidental phenomena swiftly cease so that the genuine nature of phenomena which is great bliss beyond enumeration is realized!
May all defilements of discursive thinking totally cease so that the Great Seal of non-discursive pristine awareness is swiftly realized!
May attachment to transference of the vital winds and mind totally cease so that the great bliss of the un-subsiding Great Seal is swiftly realized!
May Buddhahood which resides from the very beginning beyond enumeration as the qualities of the ultimate dimension of reality be swiftly realized for the final benefit of oneself!
May the marvelous qualities of the tangible dimension of relative reality completely come about in order to benefit beings as vast as space!