Snowy Lands: Praises to the Great Dharma Emperor Tri Songdetsen
To tame the people of the Snowy Land
The foremost bodhisattva, Noble Mañjuśrī,
You gracefully appeared in the form of Tibet’s emperor —
Tri Songdetsen, to you I offer homage and praise.
You brought the Master and Abbot, like sun and moon, together,
Along with Indian paṇḍitas and translators from Tibet.
Destined emanation for the benefit and happiness of Tibetans —
Gatherer of Many, to you I offer homage and praise.
Commissioning and checking the unerring translations
Of all the fields of knowledge, the sūtras, tantras, and commentaries,
Gallantly you raised the victory banner of learning and practising the teachings —
Grand Sovereign, to you I offer homage and praise.
You brought kingdoms of all the four directions under your control,
Constructed a temple with supports of enlightened body, speech, and mind,
And entrusted Tibet with the twofold collection of sūtra and mantra —
Protector of Tibet, to you I offer homage and praise.
By various means you unified both government and dharma,
Securing the empire’s well-being under the order of tradition excellent.
Your pleasing name, “Brahma’s Divine Flower,” spread throughout the world —
Emperor, to you I offer homage and praise.
Accomplishing the supreme amṛta above all others,
Perfecting the great potency of unwavering samādhi,
You caused authentic knowledge, elegant speech and commentaries to flourish —
Dharma King, to you I offer homage and praise.
Through the pith instructions and treatises of the secret mantra,
Rarer even than the appearance of a buddha,
You made this land of Tibet equal to Uḍḍiyāna:
To you I offer homage and praise.
The ḍākinīs of all-encompassing space concealed the profound and secret dharma,
Making the three inner tantras difficult to find,
Yet extensively the masters have revealed these jewel-like treasures —
Warden of this Land, to you I offer homage and praise.
In these valleys ringed by cold white mountains
Reside the teachings of the Buddha and those who safeguard them.
It is due to your kindness that all this has come to pass —
Incomparable Kindness, to you I offer homage and praise.
For as long as the Buddha’s teachings remain,
There will come your emanations with the purpose of ensuring
The proliferation of the Dharma and the well-being of Tibet —
To you whose bodhicitta aspiration is unequalled I offer homage and praise.
It is thanks to your kindness
That the people of our snowy homeland
Have at least heard of the great and precious buddhadharma —
No sensible person could lack respect for you.
Thus, with one-pointed faith and admiration,
I pay homage to you and offer praise, Protector!
With your great long-standing bodhicitta pledge,
Please care for us and grant your blessings.
Through the empowerments and transmissions of all the buddhas of all directions,
And through the bodhicitta strength of Avalokiteśvara,
In accordance with the aspirations of Mañjuśrī’s supreme emanation,
May the teachings of the Buddha remain steadfast.
Ever-embracing infinite beings with compassion and love,
For as long as space endures, you act for the benefit of others.
Protector, crown ornament of the bodhisattvas,
May I become your equal!
Through the power of praising and supplicating you, 1
In whatever land I and others find ourselves to be,
May sickness, poverty, and strife be pacified,
And may the Dharma flourish and auspiciousness increase!
Through the pure aspirations of the buddhas and their heirs,
And through the virtue of our own admiration,
May all be auspiciousness for the teachings to spread in all directions
In accordance with the awakened aspirations of Lord Tri Song, the Dharma Sovereign!