Aspiration for the Land of Great Bliss
Unleash the power of the great truth and compassion 1
Of the victorious buddhas and their bodhisattva heirs throughout the ten directions and four times,
And especially the Oḍḍiyāna Guru Padmasambhava,
Ārya Tārā and Vajrakumāra.
As the fierce flames of the five poisonous mental afflictions
Burn and blaze within my mind,
And I am beset by desire and craving in particular,
I must circle again and again, tormented, in conditioned existence.
If I continue to succumb like this in future,
I will surely experience the intense misery of the lower realms.
Therefore, all you guardians in your compassion,
Let all my negative thoughts based on dysfunctional tendencies
Be swiftly and surely eradicated, I pray.
Grant your blessings so that they may never recur.
Cause my mind to turn toward the Dharma, the Dharma to progress along the path,
The path to pacify delusion and delusion to dawn as wisdom.
Gurus and yidam deities, guard me with your compassion.
Quench the fires of worldly existence, I pray.
Cause my wishes and actions that accord with the Dharma to succeed,
And pacify all obstacles on the path to awakening, I pray.
Kyema Kyihü! O compassionate protectors,
Look kindly upon me, an evildoer, I pray.
Do not permit me to fall prey to negative deeds,
But inspire me with your blessings so that I may swiftly develop
The genuine view and extraordinary realization.
As soon as I depart from this life, may I be reborn
In the blissful realm, in the presence of the supreme guide Lord Amitābha,
And receive a prophecy of my future awakening.
May all those connected to me, even those who merely hear my name,
Never experience the sufferings of the lower realms,
But take birth in the supreme realm of Sukhāvatī.
In short, in everything that I do
May I never consider my own self-interest even in my dreams,
But always act purely to bring benefit to others.
In this, may the protector Mañjughoṣa, Samantabhadra and others
Ensure that all this comes to pass, exactly in accordance with my aspirations.