The Brilliant Essence The Ritual Manual for the Secret Embodiment of the Guru (Lama Sangdü) I. PREPARATION 1. Arranging the Ritual Supports 2. Demarcating the Boundary 3. Confession 4. Offering to the Guru 5. Supplication 6. Receiving the Empowerments II. MAIN PRACTICE 1.1. Visualization 1.2. Associated Sections 1.2.1. Invitation 1.2.2. Request to Remain 1.2.3. Homage 2. Consecrating and Presenting the Offerings 2.1. Consecrating the Offerings 2.2. Presenting the Offerings 2.2.I. General Offering 2.2.2. Particular Offering 2.2.3. Exceptional Feast Offering 2. Reciting the Essence Mantra 2.1. The Enlightened Intent of the Recitation 2.2. Fulfilment 2.2.1. Fulfilment of the Enlightened Body by Utilizing Substances 2.2.2. Fulfilment of the Enlightened Speech with Words of Confession 2.2.3. Fulfilment of the Enlightened Mind by Utilizing the View 3. Accomplishing the Enlightened Activities 4. Maintaining the Wisdom Mind 5. The Arising of the Signs 6. Receiving the Accomplishment Substances III. CONCLUSION 1. Generating Pure Vision 2. Offering Praises and Presenting the Initial Offerings 2.1. Offerings 2.2. Praises and Exhortation 2.2.1. Praises 2.2.2. Exhortation 2.3. Additional Activities 2.3.1. Feast Substances 2.3.2. Covenant (Chéto) 2.3.3. Maintaining the Oath of the Tenma Goddesses by Utilizing Cleansing Water Dance of Hayagrīva 2.3.4. Receiving the Accomplishments 3. Mending Impairments and Breakages Dissolution 4. Accomplishing the Sets of Activities 5. Holding the Philosophical View 6. Making Aspirations 6.1. Concluding Aspirations
Hūṃ! I sprinkle the five nectars
Upon the marvelous maṇḍala of the secret command.
The elements and the structures arisen from them clearly manifest followed by the supreme maṇḍala
And the immeasurable palace complete with the five primordial wisdoms.
oṃ sarva pañca guhya jñāna maṇḍala trāṃ
Instantly I generate myself as the hero Hayagrīva in union with the consort.
Hūṃ! By the blessings of the gurus,
The meditative concentration of the deities, and
The powerful abilities of the ḍākinīs,
The obstructors that create hindrances to accomplishment and
The hordes of māras that lead us astray
Do not remain here but are dispersed elsewhere!
Hūṃ! I am and have always been the naturally fierce one;
I demarcate this boundary and fill the space with wrathful ones.
Nobody shall pass over this boundary,
This display of obstructor-subjugating wrathful ones!
oṃ āḥ hūṃ hrīḥ guru deva ḍākinī vajra krodha rakṣa rakṣa hūṃ phaṭ
In the center of the palace is the sacred support,
The guru of my hopes and concerns,
The essence of all
Sugatas and deities of the three times is
Guru Vajrasattva,
Who appears as the victor of the secret assembly.
Namo! To the guru who is the embodiment of the sugatas and
The nature of the Three Supreme Jewels,
I and all sentient beings of the six realms
Go for refuge until enlightenment [is recognized].
I vow to generate bodhicitta, accomplish the awakened guru
For the sake of all beings, and
Liberate beings through enlightened activities
In accordance with their needs.
Hūṃ! Guru, deity, ḍākinī, consider these words:
You are completely pure and stainless;
I am enveloped by afflictions and obscurations, and
I confess and repent impairments, breakages, misdeeds, and obscurations.
oṃ āḥ hūṃ guru deva ḍākinī vajra samaya sarva dharmaḥ svabhava viśudho haṃ sarva dharmaḥ samaya hoḥ samaya stvaṃ
oṃ āḥ hūṃ guru deva ḍākinī vajra samaya ja
oṃ āḥ hūṃ guru deva ḍākinī ratna maṇḍala puja megha samudra spharaṇa samaye svāhā
My own body, resources, and
All the virtuous things of the three times,
Having multiplied these like the great offering-clouds of the bodhisattva Samantabhadra,
I offer to the gurus, the victorious ones, and their heirs.
Oh! Alas! Precious guru,
You are the embodiment of all the buddhas and
The sole ally to all beings;
I am without a protector, so hold me with your compassion!
Great Guru Vajrasattva,
Sole ally in whom I place my hope and trust,
I have no other hope but you;
Lead me out of this swamp of suffering!
Venerable Pema Tötrengtsal,
I offer myself in service to you.
You know my happiness, sadness, hopes, and concerns;
Bestow the unsurpassable, supreme accomplishments!
Enact the activities of the awakened gurus!
Confer empowerments and blessings upon me!
All limitless sentient beings without exception,
Let me guide them as their guru.
oṃ āḥ hūṃ vajra guru padma siddhi hūṃ
Light rays emanate from the four places of the guru in union with the consort
And dissolve into my four places.
By the enlightened body, speech, and mind as well as the primordial wisdom vajra,
I have been blessed and have obtained the four empowerments.
Oṃ! The unchanging dharmakāya is the vajra mind.
The King Padma said these words concerning it:
Firstly, all phenomena are without reference,
Free from descriptions and expressions, and totally perfect.
That which is beyond the mind, the immutable dharmakāya—
Meditate on the concentration of thatness.
Āḥ! In the state that is free of concepts,
Cultivate great love and compassion,
Which extends to all sentient beings.
Hūṃ! In the state of emptiness and compassion,
To bring immense benefit for beings,
Meditation on reflexive awareness as a golden vajra.
Light rays emanate and an immeasurable palace appears,
Inside is a radiating, blazing jewel lotus
With an interior akin to an unfurled rainbow.
In its center sits a sun, moon, and a lotus,
Upon which stands a vajra. In a moment of perfect recall it transforms into
The Mighty One, Hayagrīva, red in color,
With one face and two arms.
On his crown is a horse’s head neighing in the ten directions.
He brandishes a hooked knife of subjugation in the right hand,
Clutches and drinks from a skull cup of blood in the left hand.
He is adorned with the six bone ornaments and bears a khaṭvāṅga trident.
He tramples the four māras with his right leg bent and his left leg extended.
He is poised upon the sun, moon, and lotus—absolute magnificence!
From the left side he is embraced by Vajravārāhī,
Adorned with attire just like that of Hayagrīva.
Upon her crown is a snorting dark-blue sow’s head.
She is youthful with ample breasts and a full bhaga .
They dwell amidst the fire that burns at the end of an eon,
Emanating light-rays and vajra sparks.
Above them, on a sun and moon
And in the center of the pollen bed of the lotus,
Is the Lord himself, Pema Tötrengtsal,
Appearing in the form of Vajrasattva.
He is blue-black with one face and two arms,
Naked, with three eyes and attired in bone ornaments.
He holds a vajra at his heart with his right hand
And a bell with his left while he embraces his consort.
He is seated in the cross-legged vajra posture.
On the left side of his lap is the awareness consort,
The primordial wisdom ḍākinī Yeshé Tsogyal.
Her appearance is that of a sixteen-year-old youth.
She is lotus-colored with ample breasts and a full bhaga .
She is adorned with precious ornaments, bone ornaments, and a tiara.
She embraces the neck of her consort with her right hand and
Offers a skull cup of nectar with her left.
Her two legs are wrapped around her consort’s waist.
She has a rosy complexion and a bright smile.
She is lustrously naked with her hair falling free.
In the four directions is Tötrengtsal in the form of the four buddha families
In the colors white, yellow, red, and green.
Invoking them accomplishes their four enlightened activities.
All of this is encircled by a rainbow net.
In the cardinal and intermediate directions are eight jewels.
In the space above their shining points is an expanse of rainbow light where
The eight manifestations of the guru clearly appear.
Hrīḥ! In the four directions of the palace are four lotus petals—
White, yellow, red, and green—each with their own precious seed.
Inside them are the four corpse seats,
Upon which sit the Vajra, Ratna, Padma, and
Karma ḍākinīs with their consorts,
Their colors matching their buddha family.
Their sexual union, ornamentations, and attire
Resemble those of the two principal deities in union.
On the outer ring of the variegated lotuses are
Personal guardians and the deities, vidyādharas,
Assemblies of noble ones, ḍākinīs, and dharma protectors
Bestowing accomplishments and clearing away obstacles.
They sing, dance, and play music,
And present a multitude of desirable offerings.
They amass like billowing rain clouds.
Although they appear as many, they are in a single state.
Hūṃ! Previously, in the first eon,
On the northwest border of the country of Oḍḍiyāna,
In the pollen bed of a lotus,
You discovered the wondrous and supreme accomplishment.
You are renowned as Padmākara
And are surrounded by a retinue of many ḍākinīs.
As I practice in your footsteps,
Please come forth to bestow your blessings.
In the charnel ground of the Cool Grove Forest, Śītavana,
You discovered the accomplishment of a myriad of enlightened qualities.
You are renowned Padmasambhava, the Lotus-Born,
Please come forth to bestow your blessings.
In the supreme site of Ruby Rakta, Rāga Rakta,
You discovered the accomplishment of omniscience.
You are renowned as Loden Choksé, the Supremely Intelligent,
Please come forth to bestow your blessings.
In the charnel ground of Pleasure Grove, Nandanavana,
You discovered the accomplishment of subjugating the three realms.
You are renowned as Pema Gyalpo, the Lotus King,
Please come forth to bestow your blessings.
In the charnel ground of Sosadvīpa,
You discovered the accomplishment of taming all beings.
You are renowned as Nyima Öser, the Light Rays of the Sun,
Please come forth to bestow your blessings.
In the central land of the king of Sahor,
You discovered the accomplishment of wrathfully subduing the māras.
You are renowned as Śākya Sengé, the Lion of the Śākya,
Please come forth to bestow your blessings.
In a city of Magadha,
You discovered the accomplishment of subduing the tīrthikas.
You are renowned as Sengé Dradrok, the Lion’s Roar,
Please come forth to bestow your blessings.
In the Taktsang Sengé Samdrub cave [in Bhutan],
You discovered the accomplishment of annihilating the arrogant ones.
You are renowned as Dorjé Drolö,
Please come forth to bestow your blessings.
Hūṃ! In the land named Cāmaradvīpa, [the land of the rākṣasas],
On the peak of the Glorious Copper-Colored Mountain,
In the immeasurable Palace of Lotus Light,
You discovered the accomplishment of complete attainment.
You are renowned as Pema Tötrengtsal, the Lotus Garland of Skulls,
And are surrounded by a retinue of many ḍākinīs.
As I practice in your footsteps,
Please come forth to bestow your blessings.
Shower down your consecrations on this supreme site,
Confer the four empowerments on me, the supreme practitioner!
Dispel the obstacles and the hindrances that lead one astray;
Bestow the supreme and ordinary accomplishments!
Hrīḥ! From the immeasurable palace of the Blazing Great Bliss,
The powerful sovereign, the glorious and supreme Hayagrīva,
Along with the consort Vajravārāhī,
Please come forth and bestow the accomplishments!
From the four cardinal and eight intermediate directions of the immeasurable palace,
Ḍākinīs of the four buddha families, please come forth!
Servants of the Heruka, four warrior gings who subdue the māras, please come forth!
Heroes and heroines, please come forth!
From the eight sacred sites, those of the great charnel grounds,
Ḍākinīs and heroes without exception and
All the vidyādharas and dharma protectors arrive with
Their topknots swaying back and forth— dem se dem ,
Tiaras of silk fluttering— pu ru ru ,
Singing and dancing— khyuk se khyuk ,
Many cymbals crashing— si li li ,
Many ornaments jangling— tro lo lo ,
Much music resounding— di ri ri ,
Heroes stepping and striding— trab se trab ,
Heroines singing their songs— kyu ru ru ,
Hosts of deities appearing in flashes— ya la la ,
Multitudes of ḍākinīs crowding together— tib se tib ,
Dharma protectors carrying out activities— khyuk se khyuk ,
Legions of armor-clad marching— si li li ,
The eight classes of gods and demons storming about— sha ra ra ,
The masculine lineage amassing from the right— tib se tib ,
The feminine lineage gathering from the left— tib se tib ,
The glorious divisional standards fluttering and waving— lhab se lhab ,
The symbolic language of the ḍākinīs filling the air— di ri ri ,
The heroes whistling powerfully— kyu ru ru ,
The heroines dancing gracefully— shik se shik ,
The sounds of the hūṃ -syllable circulating— di ri ri ,
The symbolic call of phaṭ reverberating— sang se sang .
Please come forth to bestow your blessings;
Shower down your blessings on this supreme site;
Confer the four empowerments on me, the supreme practitioner;
Dispel the obstacles and the hindrances that lead one astray;
Bestow the supreme and ordinary attainments!
oṃ āḥ hūṃ vajra guru padma tötrengtsal vajra samaya ja siddhi phala hūṃ āḥ hrīḥ ma ha ri ni sa raca hriya citta hriṃ hriṃ ja
ja hūṃ bam ho
Hūṃ! The precious jewelled palace is so joyous,
The immeasurable mansion of the charnel ground is full of blessings,
The four-petalled lotus is resplendently clear,
The corpse seat devoid of discursiveness is cheerfully warm,
The stacked sun and moon are luminous, and
The abode is brilliantly pleasurable.
Hosts of guru, deities, and ḍākinīs,
Please remain happily and bestow your blessings;
Please reveal yourself to your longing children;
Please declare the vital instructions of the teachings;
Please open your wisdom mind to us;
Please remain here for the sake of beings!
guru deva ḍākinī samaya tiṣṭha lhen
Emaho!
Unchanging, beyond arising and cessation, complete with the enlightened activities,
You liberate beings with your natural compassion,
And make wish-fulfilling accomplishments fall like rain,
Tötrengtsal, to you I pay homage.
The Greatly Blissful Samantabhadrā free from elaborations,
The sole vajra medicinal woman, mother Tsogyal,
The inseparability of bliss and emptiness, the unification of method and wisdom—
The non-dual mother and father consorts, to you I pay homage.
With completely pure action, agent, mind, and phenomena,
You tame beings with your natural compassion,
The Mighty One, the Supreme Stallion, Hayagrīva with your consort,
To you I respectfully and non-dualistically pay homage.
Appearance is the father-consort and emptiness is the mother-consort;
The ḍākinīs and the warrior gings, to you I pay homage.
Enjoying all things in the sphere of phenomena, the dharmadhātu,
The hordes of dharma protectors, to you I pay homage.
ati pūho
pratīccha ho
oṃ svabhāva viśuddhe sarvadharmāḥ svabhāva viśuddho haṃ
oṃ āḥ hūṃ
Inside a bhāṇḍha that is the immeasurable palace is
The essence of the father- and mother-consorts of the five buddha families.
Bodhicitta nectar melts from the place of their union,
Its nature beyond bondage and liberation.
oṃ āḥ hūṃ sarva pañca amṛta hūṃ hrīḥ ṭhā
oṃ āḥ hūṃ mahā baliṅta tejo baliṅta bala bate guhya samaya hūṃ hrīḥ ṭha
The ritual offering cake is transformed into an abundance of sensual pleasures.
oṃ āḥ hūṃ mahā rakta jvala maṇḍala hūṃ hrīh ṭha
The rakta is transformed into red bodhicitta.
oṃ āḥ hūṃ puṣpe dhūpe āloke gandhe naividye śabda pūjā oṃ āḥ hūṃ
oṃ āḥ hūṃ mahā māmsa rakta kem ni ri ti mahā pañca Oṃ āḥ hūṃ
oṃ āḥ hūṃ bodhicitta gaṇa guhya pūjā ho
Hrīḥ! I present the outer offerings of divine substances
To the gurus, deities, and ḍākinīs.
Flowers, incense, butter lamps, and perfumes,
Food, music, and all things visibly attractive
I present these offerings to your eyes, noses,
Hearts, bodies, mouths, and ears.
guru deva ḍākinī puṣpe dhūpe āloke gandhe naividye śabda pūjā ho
Hrīḥ! I present the natural inner offerings
To the gurus, deities, and ḍākinīs.
I offer flowers of the five sense faculties and
The fragrances of incense and burnt-offering (sur) smoke.
I offer illuminating lamps full of the great fat and
Anointed pungent liquid from the vajra.
I offer nectar of the great odor as food and
The wail of a thigh-bone trumpet and the beating of a skull drum.
I offer the three poisons as the enlightened body, speech, and mind as well as
The five poisons as the five primordial wisdoms.
I offer all of appearance and existence as the four mudrās.
All of which indivisibly dissolve.
guru deva ḍākinī mahā pañca pūjā ho
Hrīḥ! I present the inseparable secret offerings
To the gurus, deities, and ḍākinīs.
From the secret center of the indivisible father- and mother-consorts
Descends the supremely blissful white and red bodhicitta,
I present the fluid as an offering of the equal experience of bliss.
Please accept it to empower your enlightened bodies.
oṃ āḥ hūṃ guru deva ḍākinī bodhicitta gaṇa guhya pūjā ho
Oṃ! To the gurus, deities, and the hosts of ḍākinīs
I present pleasing offering of this sacramental substance,
The supreme ambrosial nectar.
Look upon us with love and compassion and bestow the empowerments and accomplishments!
Guru deva ḍākinī sarva pañca amṛta kharam khāhi
I offer the nectar of the five ambrosias to the mouth of Dharmakāya Amitābha—please partake!
I offer the nectar of the five ambrosias to the mouth of the Great Compassionate One, Saṃbhogakāya Avalokiteśvara—please partake!
I offer the nectar of the five ambrosias to the mouth of the Lord of Conquerors, Nirmāṇakāya Padmasambhava—please partake!
I offer the nectar of the five ambrosias to the mouth of Ḍākinī Yeshé Tsogyal—please partake!
I offer the nectar of the five ambrosias to the mouths of King Tri Songdetsen, the protectors of beings, and his heirs—please partake!
I offer the nectar of the five ambrosias to the mouth of the dharma custodian and treasure revealer Guru Chöwang—please partake!
I offer the nectar of the five ambrosias to the mouth of Gyalsé Mikyö Dorjé—please partake!
I offer the nectar of the five ambrosias to the mouth of Daktön Wangchuk Dorjé—please partake!
I offer the nectar of the five ambrosias to the mouth of Nyentön Yeshé Dorjé—please partake!
I offer the nectar of the five ambrosias to the mouth of teacher Seding Sanggyé and heir—please partake!
I offer the nectar of the five ambrosias to the mouth of Guru Chöku Öser—please partake!
I offer the nectar of the five ambrosias to the mouth of Tsungmé Paljor Wangchuk—please partake!
I offer the nectar of the five ambrosias to the mouth of Tulku Chökyi Wangpo—please partake!
I offer the nectar of the five ambrosias to the mouth of Rigdzin Karma Guru—please partake!
I offer the nectar of the five ambrosias to the mouth of the Drubchen Kunsang Paljor—please partake!
I offer the nectar of the five ambrosias to the mouth of Rigdzin Trinlé Lhündrub—please partake!
I offer the nectar of the five ambrosias to the mouths of the gracious root gurus—please partake!
I offer the nectar of the five ambrosias to the mouths of the deities Hayagrīva and Vajravārāhī—please partake!
I offer the nectar of the five ambrosias to the mouths of the heroes and ḍākinīs of the five buddha families—please partake!
I offer the nectar of the five ambrosias to the mouths of the mamo protectors possessing samaya and the protectors of revealed treasures—please partake!
I offer the nectar of the five ambrosias to the mouths of all those worthy of veneration—please partake!
Āḥ! This lotus rakta which completely purifies desire,
Liberates the six types of transmigrators and subjugates the three realms.
This offering of rakta of sensual enjoyment and supreme bliss,
I offer to the hosts of gurus, deities, and ḍākinīs.
guru deva ḍākinī mahā rakta khāhi
Hūṃ! Venerable guru, please come forth.
I pray to you through my fervent longing.
I present offerings of the five sense pleasures.
I present offerings of ornamented tormas.
I present offerings of medicine, rakta, and nectar.
I present offerings of feasts.
I present the offering of single-pointed concentration.
Gurus and knowledge holders, accept these offerings!
Multitudes of deities accept these offerings!
Hosts of ḍākinīs, accept these offerings!
Gangs of warrior gings, accept these offerings!
Assemblies of heroes, accept these offerings!
Leagues of heroines, accept these offerings!
The samaya of the yogins and yoginīs is so pure!
The hosts of ḍākinīs are so enraptured!
The charnel grounds and supreme sites are so delightful!
They are ornamented with canopies of human skin
And contain an inconceivable array of flesh and hearts.
Accept these offerings of sources of delight!
Hūṃ! Upon the torma plate, the apparent universe of appearances,
Sits the torma, all the sentient beings in existence.
This glorious and magnificent torma, poised so majestically,
Even Mount Meru does not compare in size!
This torma of the mamos is surrounded by lotuses,
Not even the continents and subcontinents are so finely arranged!
The torma is decorated with white lines and red parasols,
Not even the seven golden mountains are as splendid!
The sprinkling of the red rakta is an offering of drinking water,
Not even the center of the ocean is as vast!
This torma is saturated with medicinal nectar,
Not even the food of the deities is as delicious in taste!
The torma is anointed with white essence, red essence, great flesh, great odor,
And pungent liquid—these are its five nectars.
The meat of a lion, elephant, horse, cow, and
Human, which is the most supreme—these are the five meats.
The mahāmāṃsa and a thousand other meats,
The mahācitta and a thousand other hearts,
The five sense organs, gorocana ,
Basuta, and the five internal organs,
Thousands of fruits, flowers, various grains, and many medicines,
Dough, various kinds of fried pastries, and soups,
Along with butter, confectionaries of roasted barley with butter, cheese and sugar,
Curd, yogurt, and milk, herbs, chātaru , the Indian spice asafoetida , cumin herb,
Varieties of turmeric, rock salt, and seasonings,
Wild garlic from the mountains and valleys, assortments of mushrooms,
Various foods and drinks,
Different kinds of phenomena: mental objects, forms, sounds, smells, tastes, and tangible objects,
All the varieties of offerings of the five sensory desires,
I gather them all easily with my mind.
Bless this torma with your pure and stable wisdom mind;
With this great torma that has been transmuted into nectar,
Fulfill the wishes of the vajra master and
The wishes of the hosts of deities!
Fulfill the wishes of the four classes of ḍākinīs and
The wishes of the four warrior gings!
Fulfill the wishes of the dharma protectors and
The wishes of all those worthy of veneration!
guru deva ḍākinī mahā baliṅta khāhi
oṃ sarva dravyaṃ śodhani hūṃ phaṭ
Hūṃ! I am the deity, from my heart
The syllables emanate to purify the feast offerings.
Raṃ! Fire arises from raṃ and burns away fixation.
Yaṃ! Wind arises from yaṃ and blows away subtle habitual patterns.
Khaṃ! Water arises from khaṃ and washes away dualistic grasping.
Hūṃ! I am the deity, from my heart
The blessing syllables emanate.
Hūṃ! Hūṃ purifies discursive thinking.
Āḥ! Āḥ transforms the feast into primordial wisdom nectar.
Oṃ! Oṃ fills apparent existence with sensory enjoyments.
Hrīḥ! Hrīḥ makes visible appearance delightful to the deities.
oṃ āḥ hūṃ hrīḥ
Ho! Look here! The excellent doctrine is endowed with beauty,
Do not be doubtful of it.
Know that flesh of brāhmaṇs, outcasts, dogs, and pigs,
Are of one nature, so enjoy!
The invaluable doctrine has graciously come
And has thoroughly purified the stains of desire.
I am thatness
Which has abandoned all subject-object fixation.
Hūṃ! To the sugatas, the blessed ones,
The great lord of all the buddhas,
Gurus, devas, and ḍākinīs,
I present the offering of this feast!
Bestow the accomplishments of body, speech, and mind!
Guru deva ḍākinī gaṇacakra pūjā khāhi
Hūṃ! From former times through to the present,
Due to non-recognition, with my body, speech, and mind
I have impaired the root and branch samayas;
Through these offerings of the feast of the sensory enjoyments, I confess!
vajra samaya a
Hūṃ! I am Pema Tötrengtsal, great and supreme.
Brandishing a five-pronged vajra in the right hand,
I pierce the heart of the enemy with the kīla in the left hand,
And grind male and female maleficent beings to dust.
oṃ vajra guru padma tötrengtsal
vajra samaya jaḥ
nṛ tri śā trun dra gek jung po māraya hūṃ hūṃ phaṭ phaṭ a yaṃ bed
guru deva ḍākinī dra gek kyi sha trak rü pa la kharam khāhi
bhindha ya bhindha ya hūṃ phaṭ
Appearances and all of existence, the immeasurable palace,
Gurus, and deities are the great maṇḍala of the mudrā of everything.
Just like a rainbow and the moon’s reflection on water,
Contemplate that appearances are devoid of their own nature.
oṃ āḥ hūṃ vajra guru padma siddhi hūṃ
oṃ āḥ hūṃ vajra guru padma tötrengtsal vajra samaya jaḥ siddhi phala hūṃ āḥ
This immaterial body of mine, made of light,
Is the form of Pema Tötrengtsal.
Light rays emanate from my heart and invoke the Tötrengtsal deities of the four buddha families, causing the emanations, which are like myself, to project light rays that pervade throughout space. Through this, know that the four enlightened activities and whatever is desired is accomplished.
hrīḥ ma ha ri ni sa racha rāja hriya citta hring hring jaḥ sarva siddhi śāntim puṣṭam wāsham māraya bed
Hūṃ! In this maṇḍala of the supreme, secret charnel ground,
The secret maṇḍala is arranged according to the text.
When all the powerful substances of accomplishment are laid out accordingly,
The sacred bonds of the gurus, deities, and ḍākinīs have been fulfilled.
Restore the commitments back to me, the yogin!
oṃ rulu rulu hūṃ bhyo hūṃ
From the spacious expanse of the unaltered ground of all,
Intrinsic aware and self-luminous Samantabhadra and
Primordially unborn Samantabhadrā
Within the non-dual great bliss,
The things that will be fulfilled, the actions that will be confessed, and the object towards which one confesses
Are the completely pure dharmakāya that is free from elaboration.
The dharmakāya is indivisible;
By realizing that indivisibility, I fulfill the sacred bonds.
Realization like that is the supreme fulfilment and confession.
Hūṃ! These arranged excellent substances and the great torma,
I offer to serve all mamos and ḍākinīs.
The arranged medicinal nectar offering,
I offer to serve all mamos and ḍākinīs.
The bhāṇḍha of rakta,
I offer to serve all mamos and ḍākinīs.
The full array of great substances of the charnel grounds,
I offer to serve all mamos and ḍākinīs.
The resounding thigh bone trumpet and the skull drum,
I offer to serve all mamos and ḍākinīs.
The lamps full of the great fat,
I offer to serve all mamos and ḍākinīs.
The smoke of burnt māmsa,
I offer to serve all mamos and ḍākinīs.
Heaps of desirous offerings of a supreme experience,
I offer to serve all mamos and ḍākinīs.
Fulfill the crucial sacred bonds!
Restore the degenerated and broken pledges!
guru deva ḍākinī mahā baliṅta khāhi
mahā pañca amṛta khāhi
mahā rakta kha kha khāhi khāhi
Ho! All of these excellent offering substances,
I offer in a non-dual state of equalness.
Take these in a way that is beyond accepting and rejecting.
Enjoy them in great happiness simply by absorbing them.
Hūṃ Hrīḥ! The dharmakāya guru is unaltered and free from elaborations;
The saṃbhogakāya guru of great bliss is the lord of dharma;
The nirmāṇakāya guru was born from a lotus;
I pay homage and offer praises to the vajra holder of the three enlightened bodies!
Your body is the unchanging body of Samantabhadra;
Your speech is that of the unceasing equalness of pure awareness;
Your mind is unwavering, beyond speech, imagination, and expression;
I praise the Lotus King who possesses the enlightened body, speech, and mind!
Unfathomable natural light that benefits beings and
An ornamented body of various auspicious enlightened qualities,
The master of the world, the heir of the King of the Lotus,
I pay homage and offer praises to Dorjé Tötrengtsal!
Enacting the peaceful activities—Vajra Tötrengtsal,
Enacting the enriching activities—Ratna Tötrengtsal,
Enacting the magnetizing activities—Lotus Tötrengtsal,
Enacting the wrathful activities—Karma Tötrengtsal,
Enacting the activities that spontaneously accomplish everything—Buddha Tötrengtsal,
I pay homage and offer praises to the Lord that completes all activities!
Hrīḥ! To Padmākara, who is without attachment and untainted by faults,
I offer praise!
To Padmasambhava, in whom all enlightened qualities are perfected,
I offer praise!
To Loden Choksé, who is knowledgeable in all that can be known,
I offer praise!
To the Lotus King, who is the conqueror of the three realms and the three existences,
I offer praise!
To Nyima Öser, who is the dispeller of the darkness of ignorance and the tamer of beings,
I offer praise!
To Śākya Sengé, who is the subjugator of the four māras that lead one astray,
I offer praise!
To Senggé Dradrok, who is the subduer of the tīrthikas and oath-breakers,
I offer praise!
To Dorjé Drolö, who is the destroyer of haughty enemies and obstructors,
I offer praise!
Hrīḥ! To the powerful Hayagrīva, who is the form of great compassion, unceasing in appearance,
I pay homage and offer praise!
To Vajravārāhī, who is the completely pure expanse of the unborn space of all phenomena,
I pay homage and offer praise!
To the assemblies of heroes and ḍākinīs, who come from expansive space
That is devoid of arising and cessation and who are the unceasing compassion
That displays and transforms into anything whatsoever, I pay homage and offer praise!
To the assemblies of oath-bound protectors, I pay homage and offer praise!
Hūṃ! Assemblies of knowledge-holders do not be distracted, pay attention!
Hosts of ḍākinīs do not wander about, do not neglect us!
Gangs of warrior ging s do not be heedless, pay attention!
Groups of oath-holders do not be careless, be observant!
Venerable Pema Tötrengtsal,
Rouse yourself from your natural state!
Hosts of ḍākinīs come here!
Gangs of warrior gings come here!
Multitudes of heroes come here!
Masses of heroines come here!
Bands of oath-bound ones come here!
Rouse yourself from the space of phenomena—
Vajravārāhī, bless us!
Rouse yourselves from the charnel grounds—
Four classes of ḍākinīs and gings, bless us!
Rouse yourselves from the expanse of space—
Various headed Vajra Tramen deities, bless us!
Rouse yourselves from your islands—
Islander ḍākinīs, bless us!
Rouse yourselves from the abodes of the four directions—
Ḍākinīs who carry out the activities, bless us!
Rouse yourselves from the peaks of the snow mountains—
Great vajra gings, bless us!
Shower down your blessings on this supreme site;
Confer the four empowerments upon me, the supreme practitioner;
Disperse the obstructors and hindrances that lead us astray;
Bestow the supreme and ordinary accomplishments!
Hūṃ Hūṃ! On the southwestern subcontinent of Cāmaradvīpa
Is the immeasurable Palace of Lotus Light;
The supremely superb site is so delightful!
In the pleasantness of the supreme site
Is the reverend Pema Tötrengtsal and
The ḍākinī Yeshé Tsogyal.
You have bodies devoid of birth and death and
Teach the excellent doctrine to the rakṣasas.
You are surrounded by a retinue of the four classes of ḍākinīs.
The four classes of great gings are bound to your service.
You send forth the eight classes of gods and rākṣasas as your messengers.
You subdue the red-faced rākṣasas with your skillful means.
Your heads are adorned with jewel ornaments.
Your bone ornaments jangle— tra la la ,
Countless cymbals crash resoundingly— si li li ,
Abundant ornaments clatter and shake— pu ru ru ,
Sweet-sounding music resonates loudly— di ri ri ,
And there is singing and dancing— khyuk se khyuk .
As I practice in your footsteps,
Please come forth to bestow your blessings.
Shower down your blessings on this supreme site;
Confer the four empowerments on me, the supreme practitioner;
Dispel the obstacles and the hindrances that lead one astray;
Bestow the supreme and ordinary accomplishments!
Pacifying, enriching, magnetizing, destroying—
You must quickly accomplish these activities!
You must liberate all beings possessing the ten grounds of liberation;
You must protect the Buddhist teachings!
You must praise the glorious Three Supreme Jewels;
You must destroy the enemies of the yogins!
You must subdue gods, demons, and humans;
You must dispel the hindrances of the four elements!
Pacify the discursive concepts of the five poisons!
Ho! Enjoy the ornamented offerings of the feast—
a la la ho!
Hūṃ! The first portion of the remainders has not been eaten,
The lord Padma Heruka is the master of the first portion.
The second portion of the remainders has not been eaten,
The mamos and ḍākinīs take delight in this remainder.
The last portion hasn’t been mixed,
It arises from the single, non-dual dharmakāya.
Hūṃ! The Blessed One—Padma Heruka
The Great Mother—Vajravārāhī
The gathered remainders of the command are
Surrounded by those who enjoy the remainders,
Come here and accept the remainder torma of the command and
Accomplish your entrusted enlightened activities!
Hūṃ Bhyo! In previous lifetimes, in the first eon,
In the palace of great bliss in the supreme abode of Akaniṣṭha
The greatly glorious Blessed One, Padma Heruka,
Subdued the mamos with three resounding horse’s neighs.
He bound them in their oaths and made them vow three times.
At that time, tens of millions of ḍākinīs, including Vajravārāhī,
Displayed each of their excellent and supreme forms.
Did you not agree to bestow accomplishments to those who have pledges?
Did you not agree to accept the torma of the command?
Did you not agree to accomplish the enlightened activities that were entrusted to you?
Do not transgress the pledges that you made previously,
Accept this torma that is ornamented with flesh and blood, and
Invoke the sacred bond and accomplish the entrusted enlightened activities!
Thereafter, in the middle of the intermediate eon,
At Aryapa Ling, the Noble Place on the Red Cliff by Samyé,
The great master Padmākara and
The great wisdom mother Tsogyal of Kharchen
Opened the completely perfect maṇḍala of the Mighty One.
At that time, the five classes of ḍākinīs abiding in the charnel grounds and
The twelve Tenma goddesses of the eight classes of haughty ones
Displayed their excellent and supreme forms.
Did you not agree to bestow accomplishments to those who have pledges?
Did you not agree to accept the torma of the command?
Did you not agree to accomplish the enlightened activities that were entrusted to you?
Do not transgress the pledges that you made previously,
Accept this torma that is ornamented with flesh and blood, and
Invoke the sacred bond and accomplish the entrusted enlightened activities!
Thereafter, at the time of the last eon,
On the peak of the Copper-Colored Mountain on Cāmaradvīpa,
The master Pema Tötrengtsal,
The knowledge-holder Chöwang, and those from Laṅka
Opened the maṇḍala of the great secret practice.
At that time, the rhino-headed ḍākinīs and ox-headed ḍākinīs, the assistants of liberation, the four gings,
The ocean of oath-bound ones, dharma protectors, and guardians
Displayed their excellent and supreme forms.
Did you not agree to bestow accomplishments upon those who have pledges?
Did you not agree to accept the torma of the command?
Did you not agree to accomplish the enlightened activities that were entrusted to you?
Do not transgress the pledges that you made previously,
Accept this torma that is ornamented with flesh and blood, and
Invoke the sacred bond and accomplish the entrusted enlightened activities!
The protecting mamos and sisters!
Palnema and Yangdak Shé,
Khyungtsünma, Kongtsün Lhamo, and Yubünma
Metok, Da Ö, and Jang Gyalma,
Sertang, Künsang, and Śāntim Pal,
Lumo Sibar, and so forth.
Twelve Tenma Goddesses, take this torma!
Avert all forms of harm and adversity!
oṃ āḥ hūṃ vajra amṛta khāhi
ma ma hring ma ma hring khāhi khāhi
Hūṃ hrīḥ! As the great yogic observance of Hayagrīva,
I visualize myself as the Mighty One!
To the aggregates of the ten objects of liberation,
I proclaim monstrously and magnificently fierce sounds:
The neighing of the Mighty One— tse re re ,
The dances of the wrathful— u ru ru ,
The glorious neighing— di ri ri ,
The playful horse dance— chem se chem ,
The secret and powerful whistling— kyu ru ru ,
The red lightning at the end of an eon— jib se jib ,
The clapping of thunder— lam se lam .
With hūṃ , the three realms are overpowered and sway.
With phaṭ , emanations fill the world.
With raṃ , fire blazes forth and burns through everything.
Beasts, with open mouths, amass like clouds.
[Charnel ground] kangka birds and winged creatures gather like a cluster of stars.
To fulfill the previous sacred bonds,
In the expansive space of Samantabhadrā
The three realms are completely liberated.
At that time, in the maṇḍala of the great devourer
On the amassed five poisons,
The pulverizing dance of the great beast
Destroys the hatred which stems from the view of self.
In the maṇḍala of the great blood drinker,
In the swirling ocean of rakta,
The crushing dance of the mamos and ḍākinīs
Destroys desire and attachment.
In the maṇḍala of the great and glorious battle,
On the heap of human flesh, which is delusion,
The pulverizing dance which gathers the winged predators
Destroys the delusion which stems from unknowing.
In the maṇḍala of the greatly fierce wrathful one
On sense faculties and limbs,
The pulverizing dance of the vajra wings
Destroys envy which stems from ignorance.
In the maṇḍala of the great demolisher,
Upon the circular [lion] throne in its center
The pulverizing dance of the vajra lips
Destroys pride which stems from grasping at a self.
In the maṇḍala of the enlightened body, speech, and mind
With the activities that destroy the three poisons,
The great samayas of the past are restored.
In the maṇḍala of the mamos and ḍākinīs
With the activities of the emanation of Tanagaṇa, or Liberation and Sexual Union,
The rituals that fulfill yoga are complete.
In the maṇḍala of the dancing Mighty One,
With the activities which destroy the four māras,
The rituals that liberate the three realms are complete.
In the maṇḍala of the great assistants,
With the activities that liberate the transgressions of the commands,
The rituals that suppress Rudra are complete.
oṃ vajra krodha siddhi hūṃ
oṃ vajra krodha hayagrīva hulu hulu hūṃ phaṭ
From the open center of the enjoyably and supremely blissful sky arise the
The heirs of the maṇḍalas of the victors who possess the sacred commitments.
Vajra Guru Pema Tötrengtsal’s supreme accomplishments
That are connected with his enlightened body, speech, and mind, as well as
The glorious and spontaneously accomplished four enlightened activities
Appear in the manner of a high-quality vase and a wish-granting jewel.
Please bestow these upon me this instant:
Bestow the accomplishment of the immutable enlightened body;
Bestow the accomplishment of unceasing speech;
Bestow the accomplishment of an undeluded mind;
Bestow the accomplishment of enlightened qualities that fulfill wishes;
Bestow the accomplishment of the enlightened activities that tame beings;
Bestow the accomplishment of immortality;
Bestow the accomplishment of abundant wealth;
Bestow the common accomplishment of wish-fulfilment;
Bestow the supreme and unsurpassable accomplishment, I pray!
...kāya vāka citta siddhi phala ho
Guru Vajrasattva
Joyfully dissolves into me.
Again, I rest in the unfabricated ground
That is free from mental fixation,
The completely pure dharmakāya free from elaboration.
Emaho!
For the sake of all beings,
For unfathomable eons
Up to this final moment,
I have meditated upon, accomplished, offered, and praised
The supreme gurus, deities,
Buddhas, bodhisattvas, and ḍākinīs
With my body, speech, and mind.
I have composed, read, and retained their literature, coming to full comprehension.
May the results of such virtuous actions of the view, wisdom mind, and so forth
Come to fruition right here and now!
May I attain the supreme primordial wisdom of omniscience!
Furthermore, may the enlightened aspirations of the gurus
Of all three times and ten directions be fulfilled!
May all sentient beings of the six transient states without exception,
Especially my fathers and mothers of the past, present, and future,
Be cared for by the supreme guru!
May all realize the completely pure indestructible meaning!
May there be the auspiciousness of the sacred gurus, who
Have no confusion regarding the truth of knowable objects!
May there be auspiciousness of the supreme attainment, which
Accomplishes the purpose of whatever comes to mind!
May there be the auspiciousness of mahāmudrā, which arises
From the matrix of the enlightened body, speech, and mind!