Guru Sādhana of Glorious Dharmakīrti Further Supplication
Ah. Out of the state of the emptiness of all phenomena,
Upon a jewelled throne and seats of lotus and moon
Is the master of discourse Dharmakīrti.
He is white with a tinge of red and has a wrathful smile.
He wears monastic robes, and with his right hand
Makes the mudrā of universal victory,
While his left, upon his knee, adopts the gesture of granting refuge.
On his head he wears the flattened hat of a paṇḍita.
His two feet are in the posture of ease, and he is dignified in his bearing.
His three centres are marked by the three seed syllables,
And in his heart centre, upon a moon is a pale blue sword
With a syllable dhīḥ inside the handle
And a blazing garland of vowels and consonants around its surface.
Light emanates from the master’s heart centre to invite the wisdom being,
Who merges inseparably with the samayasattva.
Emaho.
Emanated through the aspirations of Samantabhadra, 1
You cut through the web of conceptual thought.
Dharmakīrti, victorious over all,
To you I pray: inspire me with your blessings.
oṃ āḥ guru dharmakīrti sarva siddhi phala hūṃ
A nectar flow of guru-forms and the insignia of enlightened mind,
Together with mantras and rays of light,
All descend like rain and dissolve into me.
With myriad rays of the light of knowledge and insight
You banish the darkness of my mind.
Glorious and wholly excellent Dharmakīrti,
Great chariot of this world, to you I pray.
You crush the heads of elephant-like heretics and false dialecticians,
And through debate you clarify the teachings of the Sage.
Lion of Speech, unparalleled in majesty and brilliance,
Great heruka, mighty lord of siddhas,
Turn your attention toward me forevermore,
So that I may apply the path of genuine reasoning to all the Buddha’s words,
And through the confidence that derives from valid cognition,
Gain firm conviction in the teacher and the teachings.
May I obtain the power to refute mistaken or nonsensical notions
From all the suppositions generated in delusion
By false dialecticians, heretics and barbarians,
Which do not bring benefit or happiness to beings.
For as long as the teachings of the Omniscient One endure,
May I follow the science of valid cognition, and with a sharp tongue
Perfectly distinguish Dharma and non-Dharma, right and wrong,
Setting the undergrowth of inferior views ablaze.
In all my lives, may I take you, glorious Samantabhadra
Dharmakīrti, as the lord of all my buddha families.
And may I gain the supreme treasure of courageous eloquence
And the intelligence that discerns words and meaning in the Word and treatises.
From the three syllables at the guru's three centres,
Rays of white, red and blue light shine out in turn.
They dissolve into my own three doors of body, speech and mind,
And then the sword and seed-syllables pass from his heart centre
To enter my own heart, whereupon rays of light
Dispel my heart's darkness and unlock my channels.
oṃ arapacana dhīḥ
The glorious guru melts into light and dissolves into me,
And I rest in an experience of Samantabhadra: ever-perfect awareness and emptiness.