Words to Delight the Sovereigns of the Dharma A Prayer of Aspiration for the Flourishing and Spread of the Ancient Translation Tradition
Homage to you, sugatas in every direction, along with all your heirs,
And especially to you, the one and only King of the Śākyas,
With the Eight Great Bodhisattvas and the exalted assembly of arhats.
Sublime embodiments all of wisdom and compassion: turn your loving gaze toward us!
This precious teaching, source of all benefit, happiness and bliss,
Is the truth for which our teacher, Lord Buddha, and all the supreme bodhisattvas
Searched and strove, again and again, through hardship of every kind:
So may this teaching of the lotus-born buddha flourish and spread!
Khenpo Śāntarakṣita, great master Padmasambhava, Dharma king Tri Songdetsen, incarnate translators and paṇḍitas,
Vidyādharas who hold kama and terma lineages, yidam deities,
Ekajaṭī, Mahākāla, Za Rāhula, Dorje Lekpa and the proud protectors, male, female and diverse:
All of you sources of blessing, attainment and activity in the Early Translations, turn your minds toward us!
You were the ones who, with all of your love and care,
Brought the Buddha’s teaching and its countless Dharma systems of sūtra and tantra to the Land of Snows.
So now remember your vajra promise to make them grow from strength to strength,
And let this teaching of the lotus-born buddha flourish and spread!
The vajra body, speech and mind of buddhas throughout all of space and time,
Emanated as forms of Avalokiteśvara, Vajrapāṇi, and Mañjuśrī, whose magical display
Caused a sun of happiness to fill the Land of Snows with light.
This teaching of the lotus-born buddha: may it flourish and spread!
Then buddhas and sublime great bodhisattvas chose
To emanate and be born there as lotsawas and scholars,
To raise high the victory-banner with its jewel, the untarnished teachings of Buddha:
So may this teaching of the lotus-born buddha flourish and spread!
It was they alone who translated, without error, the common sciences and all the extraordinary scriptures,
They who checked them and finalized them,
So for the first time a great door was flung open, flooding the Land of Snows with the light of Dharma.
May this teaching of the lotus-born buddha flourish and spread!
Fortunate disciples taking up the practice of
The sūtras and tantras have no need to look elsewhere,
For within the Buddha’s words and the commentaries on his vision, everything is complete.
These teachings of the lotus-born buddha: may they flourish and spread!
The truth the Buddha taught—the kama transmission is vast and immeasurable,
Its full beauty brought out by the jewels of the profound termas
To form a sublime path that unites both sūtra and mantra.
May this teaching of the lotus-born buddha flourish and spread!
The action of Śāntarakṣita, exquisite scholar of Zahor,
And the view of the unequalled, glorious Nāgārjuna
Integrated as one, seal the tradition of this lineage:
May this teaching of the lotus-born buddha flourish and spread!
The quintessence of the three profound inner tantras lies in
The uncommon pith instructions; their supreme and secret path leads
To the radiant wonder of entering the dharmakāya in a body of rainbow light:
May this teaching of the lotus-born buddha flourish and spread!
The eight sādhanas of the infinite peaceful and wrathful deities
Were transmitted to each of the eight vidyādharas. The essence of their realization
And Padmasambhava’s tradition which combines them all are woven into one
In this teaching of the lotus-born buddha: may it flourish and spread!
The great causal vehicle and resultant secret mantra vehicle,
Complete and unmistaken, with the original words of the vidyādhara lineage masters
And the hot breath of the ḍākinīs, straight from their lips —
Such is the teaching of the lotus-born Buddha: may it flourish and spread!
Vajradhara’s wisdom mind, its quintessential nectar,
Is transmitted from mouth to ear by millions of learned and realized beings,
Untainted by the inventions of wrong-headed intellectuals:
May this teaching of the lotus-born buddha flourish and spread!
Even by offering continents made of gold, covered with jewels,
Teachings from the space ḍākinīs’ wisdom mind treasury can never be acquired,
For they are bestowed only out of love, and to worthy, fortunate disciples:
May this teaching of the lotus-born buddha flourish and spread!
In the wisdom of the essence, primordially pure,
The radiance of its nature spontaneously shines out.
So Great Perfection is utterly beyond the conceptual minds of dull meditators:
May this teaching of the lotus-born buddha flourish and spread!
Where rigid concepts clinging to one side or another, existence or non-existence, naturally collapse,
And habitual grasping to extreme views is uprooted,
Ground, Path and Fruition are the union of appearance and emptiness:
May this teaching of the lotus-born buddha flourish and spread!
The final meaning of all buddhas’ realization, past, present and future,
“Profound, peace, natural simplicity, clear light, uncompounded”,
Is the indestructible vajra viewpoint of inseparable awareness and emptiness:
May this teaching of the lotus-born buddha flourish and spread!
Anyone who has studied many teachings can draw on a teeming cloud of scriptural sources,
And so defeat opponents with a reasoning that scorches like bolts of lightning,
While the nectar of the crucial points of the experiential pith-instructions seeps into their hearts:
May this teaching of the lotus-born buddha flourish and spread!
By following this swift and secret path, the sublime Atiyoga,
The wisdom body of all of the buddhas,
The universal lord, Mañjuśrī the Indestructible, is actually and perfectly realized:
May this teaching of the lotus-born buddha flourish and spread!
The lion’s roar, the three authentic teachings of scripture, reasoning and pith instruction,
Strikes terror among all other animals, the holders of lesser views.
Just like the call of the lion, so too may the sound of Atiyoga, the supreme vehicle, fill the entire earth, above, below and in between,
And this teaching of the lotus-born buddha flourish and spread!
The Buddha’s teachings, so complete, are like the folds of exquisite silk in a banner of victory,
And the Clear Light Vajra Essence of Dzogpachenpo, akin to the beautiful crowning jewel at its tip.
So raise this all-conquering banner high into the sky
And let this teaching of the lotus-born buddha flourish and spread for ages to come!
From this day on, and as long as living beings remain,
I and others will hold, protect and spread the teachings of Buddha in their entirety, and especially their Heart Essence,
In buddha realms reaching through the whole of space,
And so let us cause this teaching of the lotus-born buddha to flourish and to spread!
Finally, by emulating the learned, disciplined and realized practitioners,
Let true holders of the teachings spread the Buddhadharma, and their enlightening actions stretch throughout the universe.
Let them appear everywhere on Earth, and thereby
May this teaching of the lotus-born buddha flourish and spread!
Let the lives of the glorious masters be forever secure and firm,
Let the prosperity, power and standing of the sponsors of the teachings grow,
Let the resources of the Dharma and of our world never wane, and may this jewelled victory banner fly forever,
So the teaching of the lotus-born buddha spreads far and wide, and remains for ages to come!