Words of Advice on Accomplishing Immortality An Extremely Concise Daily Practice Uniting the Short Lineages of Amitāyus and Hayagrīva Refuge and Bodhicitta Visualization Invocation and Mantra Conclusion
Namo gurubhyaḥ!
From now until enlightenment, I and all sentient beings
Take refuge in the Long-Life Deity embodying the Three Roots.
In order to attain perfect buddhahood for the benefit of beings,
I will generate bodhicitta through practicing the vidyādhara of immortality.
oṃ svabhāva śuddhāḥ sarvadharmāḥ svabhāva śuddho ‘haṃ ||
The environment itself, and everything within it, in the state of referenceless emptiness,
Becomes the Lotus Arrayed Pure Land of Great Bliss.
At its centre, on a jewelled throne supported by peacocks,
Upon a multicoloured lotus and moon disc seat, Rests my mind as the syllable hrīḥ .
From it, I arise as the protector Amitāyus.
Brilliant red, with one face and two hands resting in equipoise,
Holding the long-life vase filled with the nectar of immortality.
Adorned with silks and jewels, he sits in cross-legged posture.
In his heart upon a moon disc rests the red hrīḥ syllable
And within it the long-life support, a bindu of five-coloured light.
Above Amitāyus’ head are the root and lineage masters, seated in tiers,
With the Blessed Protector highest of all, the Buddha of Boundless Life.
Light shoots forth from the deities’ hearts, inviting the wisdom beings.
They dissolve indivisibly with me
And I become the embodiment of all the sources of refuge.
jaḥ hūṃ baṃ hoḥ
Oṃ āḥ hūṃ hrīḥ hrīḥ! Buddha Amitābha, Limitless Light, you care for us, each and every one,
Lord Amitāyus, Boundless Life, you grant us immortality,
All-powerful Hayagrīva, you eliminate every obstacle we face,
Padmasambhava, you are our refuge in this darkest of times,
Thangtong Gyalpo, you never fail to answer our prayers.
Now, I pray to you all: dispel everything unfavourable, every obstacle,
Fill me, transform me with your blessing—grant me the siddhi of immortal life!
oṃ āḥ hūṃ hrīḥ hrīḥ vajra-guru-padma siddhi punje jñāna āyur siddhi jaḥ ||
Light shoots forth from the hearts of the root and lineage masters,
Causing my depleted, waning, dispersing life-force
And the life essence of all existence and quiescence to gather and dissolve into the long-life vase.
A stream of nectar flows from the vase, entering my body through the brahma-aperture.
The nectar fills my body and purifies all disease, all harmful influences, defilements and obscurations,
And grants the siddhi of immortality.
Root and lineage masters, peaceful and wrathful yidam deities,
By the power and strength of your blessings
Pacify all adversities, diseases, harmful influences, defilements and obscurations!
Grant me the siddhi of immortality and boundless life and wisdom!
The root and lineage masters, by virtue of this prayer,
Transform into a stream of the nectar of immortality
Which gradually melts into light and dissolves into the bindu in my heart,
Granting me the siddhis of immortality and boundless life and wisdom.
oṃ āḥ hūṃ
Through the merit of this practice, may I and all beings
Enjoy a long and healthy life dedicated to the Dharma.
In the next life may we take rebirth in Sukhāvatī,
And swiftly reach the state of the Protector Amitāyus.
May the enjoyment and splendour of everlasting, deathless life,
Keen intellect, discernment, and insight,
And all the riches and glories of existence and quiescence––
May all these be spontaneously accomplished, we pray!
May students never separate from teachers, may they always keep close company!
May the lives of our teachers remain firm and unchanging!
May there always be good food and drink!
May everything be auspicious, that happiness and the Dharma flourish and abound!