Prayer to the Lineage of Seven-Point Mind Training
Homage to the Guru and Three Jewels!
Supreme guide who perfected twofold accumulation, crowning glory of the Śākya clan,
Bodhisattva and protector Ajita, representative and heir of the victorious one,
And Ārya Asaṅga, sovereign of the three levels, 1
To you I pray: inspire me with your blessings!
Second omniscient one, Vasubandhu, heir to the victorious,
Ārya Vimuktisena, who saw the nature of reality beyond extremes,
And Bhadanta Vimuktisena, who realized the meaning of the two truths—
To you I pray: inspire me with your blessings!
Noble Guṇamitra, friend and ally of beings,
Haribhadra, devourer of the beasts of evil views, 2
And Pūrṇavardhana, enhancer of his own and others’ twofold accumulation—
To you I pray: inspire me with your blessings!
Kusali the Elder, a treasury of precious qualities,
Kusali the Younger, who exchanged himself for others,
And Serlingpa, great, unrivalled scholar and adept—
To you I pray: inspire me with your blessings!
Atiśa Dīpaṃkara, whose mind was like a wish-fulfilling gem,
Precious teacher Gyalwé Jungné, 3
And Putowa, illuminator of the jewel-like teachings—
To you I pray: inspire me with your blessings!
Sharawa, who was renowned for his sublime qualities,
Chekawa, who mastered the two forms of bodhicitta,
And Gyalwa Sé, 4 whose view and conduct were immaculate—
To you I pray: inspire me with your blessings!
Könchok Lha, 5 who acted solely for other’s benefit,
Lhadingpa, 6 whose threefold training was entirely pure,
And Lhading Ön, 7 who devoted body, speech and mind to altruism—
To you I pray: inspire me with your blessings!
Yönten Pal, who kept to the path of the victors of past, present and future,
Dewa Pal, 8 who caused the Buddha’s teachings to flourish widely,
And Kazhipa, unrivalled in learning and discipline— 9
To you I pray: inspire me with your blessings!
Precious source of all benefit and happiness,
Renowned throughout the three-thousandfold universe for powerful merit and wisdom,
Sovereign of love and compassion, lord of Dharma, 10
To you I pray: inspire me with your blessings!
Seeing that rarely won freedoms and advantages soon decay
And realizing the infallibility of karmic effects, you were never
Distracted even for a moment but fully devoted yourself to virtue—
Precious lord of Dharma, to you I pray.
Seeing the ultimate, beyond conceptual extremes,
And the relative, which appears yet is unreal,
You are unsullied by the delusion of reification—
Precious lord of Dharma, to you I pray.
Through the power of leaving selfishness far behind
And your long acquaintance with compassion for others,
You forsook selfish concerns to secure others’ wellbeing—
Precious lord of Dharma, to you I pray.
Whenever you encountered the wind of adversity
It only strengthened the fires of twofold bodhicitta,
Consuming the wood of karma and the kleśas—
Precious lord of Dharma, to you I pray.
You donned the armour of incomparably vast accumulation,
Strove for other’s welfare while avoiding attachment to your own,
And aspired to maintain bodhicitta without interruption—
Precious lord of Dharma, to you I pray.
Through the force of constant familiarity with twofold bodhicitta,
You were able to abandon selfishness and work for others’s sake
Continuously even without applying effort or exertion—
Precious lord of Dharma, to you I pray.
You upheld the three sets of vows—pratimokṣa,
Bodhisattva, and secret mantra—without the stain of transgression,
And were thus a supreme śramaṇa, heir to the victors and vajra holder—
Precious lord of Dharma, to you I pray.
You became proficient in all three training, just as the Victor taught,
And a splendour of the teachings,
The crown adornment of all holders of the doctrine—
Precious lord of Dharma, to you I pray.
So that they might fully master twofold bodhicitta,
You engendered an attitude of supreme confidence in your disciples
Through your exposition of the Dharma—
Precious lord of Dharma, to you I pray.
Inspire me, so that I do not waste this free, advantageous state,
With its qualities so rare, distracted by the affairs of this life,
But devote myself entirely to the Dharma, day and night,
With an enthusiastic diligence that is keen and uninterrupted.
Inspire me to realize the uncertainty of when this life and body,
Which are as fragile as a bubble in water, will perish,
And never to squander even so much as a moment
In thought or deed trying to secure the luxuries of this life.
Inspire me to remain always unattached to worldly pleasures,
And devote all my thoughts and deeds without interruption
To the attainment of enlightenment for the sake of all beings,
Rather than the pursuit of a peaceful nirvāṇa for myself alone.
Inspire me to see how beings, my own kin in time without beginning,
Are immersed in an ocean of misery,
And to develop uncontrived compassion,
Like that of a mother who sees her dear child swept away by a river.
Inspire me to take on others’ flaws
And give them all my own happiness and virtue,
Since all faults arise from seeking happiness for oneself
And all qualities arise from a wish to benefit others.
Since the attitude of self-cherishing is like an enemy
That brings suffering to oneself and others throughout beginningless time,
Inspire me to develop the strength of twofold bodhicitta
From now on and to eradicate this attachment to myself.
Since beings have helped me throughout beginningless time
And the attainment of awakening itself depends upon them,
Inspire me to see them as causes of benefit and happiness, just like the victors,
And to venerate them respectfully at my crown.
Since at this time, through the power of evil actions,
All the world is filled with adverse circumstances,
And there is no way to practise Dharma without avoiding such adversity,
Inspire me to transform adversity into the path.
Inspire me to realize that no matter what occurs,
Be it happiness or sorrow, help or harm, gain or loss,
All that appears is unreal, like success and failure within a dream,
And to let it all be naturally liberated without attachment.