Rain of Accomplishments A Concise Fulfilment Practice for the Female Awareness-Holder
Hūṃ. In primordial great emptiness, the expanse of space,
All that arises, as vast as existence and peace,
Is purified as the substances of offering,
To become an inexhaustible sky-treasury.
Oṃ āḥ hūṃ.
Within the nature of indestructible great bliss
And the dharmakāya purity of saṃsāra and nirvāṇa,
There are neither objects nor agents of fulfilment.
Yet in order to purify the stains of temporary appearances:
Just as in a magical illusion,
The realm of the great purity and equality of appearance and existence,
And its contents, all thoughts and living beings in existence and peace,
Have always been the field of accumulation.
Knowing this, the seal of wisdom is imprinted
And the maṇḍalas of deities are arranged in naturally arisen space.
Hūṃ. The heaps of sensual delights of food and drink,
The enjoyments of the five senses, are the inner feast.
The goddesses of sensual delights fill the sky;
The wisdom of the four joys is the secret feast.
These are the wondrous, delightful samaya substances!
Hūṃ. All you root gurus of the six or nine types of lineage, 1
Such as the mind-direct, sign and oral transmissions,
And all you chosen deities 2 of the maṇḍalas of the four or six classes of tantra—
May your wishes be fulfilled!
All you oceanic ḍākinīs of wisdom and activity,
Abiding in The Unsurpassed, celestial pure realms and sacred lands,
And in terrestrial pure realms—
May your wishes be fulfilled!
All you innate, field-born and mantra-born ḍākinīs,
Abiding in the eight charnel grounds, twenty places,
And thirty-seven great lands—
May your wishes be fulfilled!
All you ḍākinīs abiding in primary and peripheral lands and fields,
The chandoha and upacchandoha , major and minor meeting places,
Charnel grounds and related funeral areas,
And primary and secondary abodes 3 —
May your wishes be fulfilled!
Appearance and existence, in reality, are ḍākinī lands;
Aggregates and elements cities to ḍākinīs by their millions.
The three seats, in reality, are the deities of the maṇḍala.
May your wishes be fulfilled within the expanse of singular dharmakāya.
Out of the vapour of inexhaustible ambrosia
Arise offering substances which fill the universe,
And, dissolving into your pores, bring perfect satisfaction.
May your delight heal all impairments and breakages!
Through drops from the supremely secret vajra,
The heroic ones, flush with passionate desire,
Embrace you in an experience of untold pleasure—
May the play of blissful emptiness and fourfold joy bring fulfilment.
I confess the root downfalls of samaya in basic space.
All you hosts of ḍākinīs, forceful and flesh-eating spirits,
Together with your entire retinue,
Free us from our mistakes, and through this offering of flesh, blood and life-supporting breath,
In your delight and fulfilment, liberate us from this ocean of existence!
Environment and beings arise as Samantabhadrā’s display,
Within which there are higher and lower guests,
Including the six classes, obstructing forces, and pursuers of karmic debt—
May the play of emptiness beyond extremes bring fulfilment.
Effortlessly bestow supreme and ordinary attainments!
In all my births and lives to come may I never be apart
From the one true mother and her hosts of ḍākinīs,
And may I be a proper vessel for the Secret Mantra.
May I enact the supreme play of yogic discipline’s secret conduct,
Perfect the twofold aim, and accomplish the rainbow body.
May I realize in this very life the level of the yoginī,
Who is endowed with the supreme of all qualities!