The Single-Form Daily Practice from Chimé Pakmé Nyingtik (The Heart-Essence of the Sublime Lady of Immortality) I. The Preliminary 1. Taking Refuge 2. Generating Bodhicitta II. The Main Practice 1. Meditation on the Deity a) Visualization of the Samayasattvas b) Inviting and Absorbing the Jñānasattvas Paying Homage Offerings Praise c) Focusing the Mind on the Form of the Deity 2. The Mantra Recitation III. Conclusion Offerings Praise Confession of Mistakes in Practice Dissolution Dedication
Homage to the guru, the sublime Tārā!
I imagine that in the sky before me appears the guru, the Wish-fulfilling Wheel, in whom all sources of refuge are embodied. Before her, I and all other sentient beings, with our body, speech and mind focused on one single aim, take refuge and arouse bodhicitta.
Namo! Until we attain enlightenment, I and all sentient beings
Take refuge with unwavering devotion
In you, Guru Wish-fulfilling Wheel, you who are
The very essence of the Three Jewels!
Hoḥ! Sentient beings are as countless as space is vast,
In order to free them from the ocean of suffering
By attaining immortality through this yoga of 'the exalted lady' Tārā,
I arouse bodhicitta, the heart of the enlightened mind.
hūṃ hūṃ hūṃ
vajra-jnāna-rakṣa aḥ hūṃ
oṃ āḥ hūṃ sarva-pūjā-megha-samaye hūṃ
oṃ mahā-śūnyatā-jñāna-vajra-svabhāvātmako ’ham
All things in saṃsāra and nirvāṇa are primordially
Clear light and the space of suchness.
Their union, all-illuminating compassion
Arises as the causal samādhi, a white tāṃ ,
Appearing like a rainbow in the sky and
Sending out light that purifies clinging to a reality in the world and beings.
Within the expanse of the five elements, the five consorts,
Stands the celestial mansion of great liberation,
Formed of precious crystal,
With four sides, four doors, and all its features complete.
In its centre, on a four-petalled lotus, are
Skillful means and wisdom—sun and moon fused together,
In the centre of which is the syllable taṃ , as their union,
Which sends out light as an offering to the noble ones,
Gathering and bringing back the quintessence of saṃsāra and nirvāṇa, whereupon
It transforms into the magical body of wisdom,
The enlightened activity of buddhas of past, present, and future,
Wish-fulfilling Wheel, granter of immortality,
Brilliant white, with one face and two hands,
Her right hand in the mudrā of supreme generosity
Her left grants refuge, symbolizing the Three Jewels,
And holds an utpala flower, on which rests a vase of longevity.
Peaceful, smiling, with her seven eyes of wisdom,
She is lovely and adorned with silks and jewelled ornaments,
Her two legs crossed in vajra posture,
Presiding on her lotus and moon disc seat.
Her natural radiance is the supreme skilful means, the Lord of the Dance,
Holding lotus flower and long life vase, and embracing her in union.
The crown of their heads, their throats, and hearts,
Are marked with the syllables of the three vajras,
From which rays of light stream out and
Invite the jñānasattvas.
Hrīḥ! Deity of long life
With your supreme wisdom of discernment,
Crowned by Amitābha, Limitless Light,
Lady who is the enlightened activity of the buddhas of past, present and future,
Approach, you who manifest as the Wish-fulfilling Wheel!
So as to confer the supreme siddhi on this practitioner,
Direct your wisdom mind into this maṇḍala of the samayasattvas,
And arouse in me indestructible vajra wisdom!
samaya hoḥ | samaya taṃ | e āralli hrīṃ hrīṃ jaḥ | jñāna-sattva a āḥ |
jaḥ hūṃ baṃ hoḥ | samaya tiṣṭha lhen |
a la la ho | atipu hoḥ | pratiṣṭha hoḥ |
Oṃ! Whether actually present, or manifested by the mind,
All offering substances, outer, inner and secret
I offer to you, noble Wish-fulfilling Wheel:
Accept them and grant me the siddhi of immortality!
oṃ āryatāre saparivāra arghaṃ pādyaṃ puṣpe dhūpe āloke gandhe naivedye śabda rūpa śabda gandha rāsa sparśa pratīccha svāhā | sarva-pañcāmṛta-mahā-rakta-baliṅta khāhi | sarva-dharmadhātu atmako ’ham ||
Oṃ! You were born from the tears of Avalokiteśvara,
The lord of the world, and master of compassion.
Mother of the Buddhas of past, present and future,
Wish-fulfilling Wheel, to you I pay homage and offer praise!
I am the sublime Tārā: in my heart,
Is the jñānasattva Amitāyus.
Brilliant white, and holding a long life vase in the mudrā of meditation,
Beautiful with silk and jewelled ornaments,
In vajra posture on a lotus and moon disc seat,
Shining and emanating rays of light.
In the centre of his heart is a lotus, and sun and moon discs,
In the middle of which is taṃ , encircled by the mantra-mālā.
Reciting the mantra evokes his wisdom mind, causing
A stream of boundless light to burst out
Through the tip of the jewel on the uṣṇīṣa on the crown of my head,
From which appears the sublime Vijayā,
The colour of crystal. Her right hand
In the mudrā of granting refuge, holds a hook
Her left, in the mudrā of supreme giving, holds a long life vase.
She radiates light and rays of light, and
Limitless forms of herself, streaming out like particles of dust in sunbeams,
Which draw in all the subtle vital essence of saṃsāra and nirvāṇa, the animate and inanimate universe,
In forms of great bliss, which
Absorb into the bindus of my body, speech, and mind,
Granting me the siddhi of immortal life,
And intensifying the wisdom of great bliss.
oṃ tāre tuttāre ture svāhā ||
oṃ tāre tuttāre ture hrīḥ bhrūṃ vajra-jñānāyuṣe svāhā ||
oṃ amaraṇi jīvantaye svāhā ||
oṃ amṛtāyurdade svāhā ||
a ā | i ī | u ū | ṛ ṝ | ḷ ḹ | e ai | o au | aṃ | aḥ | ka kha ga gha ṅa | ca cha ja jha ña | ṭa ṭha ḍa ḍha ṇa | ta tha da dha na | pa pha ba bha ma | ya ra la va śa ṣa sa ha kṣa | oṃ ye dharmā hetu prabhāvā hetuṃ teṣāṃ tathāgato hyavadat teṣāṃ ca yo nirodha evaṃ vādī mahāśramaṇaḥ svāhā ||
Oṃ! Whether actually present, or manifested by the mind,
All offering substances, outer, inner, and secret
I offer to you, noble Wish-fulfilling Wheel:
Accept them and grant me the siddhi of immortality!
oṃ āryatāre saparivāra arghaṃ pādyaṃ puṣpe dhūpe āloke gandhe naivedye śabda rūpa śabda gandha rāsa sparśa pratīccha svāhā | sarva-pañcāmṛta-mahā-rakta-baliṅta khāhi | sarva-dharmadhātu atmako ’ham ||
Oṃ! You were born from the tears of Avalokiteśvara,
The lord of the world, and master of compassion.
Mother of the Buddhas of past, present and future,
Wish-fulfilling Wheel, to you I pay homage and offer praise!
oṃ vajrasattva samayam anupālaya vajrasattva-tvenopa-tiṣṭha dṛḍho me bhava sutoṣyo me bhava supoṣyo me bhava anurakto me bhava sarva-siddhiṃ me prayaccha sarva-karma śuca me cittaṃ śreyaṃ-kuru hūṃ ha ha ha ha hoḥ bhagavān sarva-tathāgata-vajra mā me muñca vajrī-bhava mahā-samaya-sattva āh ||
A! The samayasattva, rigpa's natural display,
With its attributes, like the face and hands, dissolves into all-pervading space.
Once again, like a rainbow appearing in the sky,
I arise as the play of great primordial wisdom.
oṃ āh hūṃ
Through the merit of this practice may I swiftly
Accomplish 'the exalted lady of immortality',
And so every single sentient being, without exception,
Be led to that perfect state as well!