The Finest Jewel An Aspiration Prayer of Mahāyāna Mind Training
Namo guru!
Incomparable teacher, king of the Śākyas,
Avalokiteśvara and reverend noble Tārā,
Lord Acala, sovereign of the wrathful ones,
Sole deity, great Jowo Atiśa and your heirs—
Remain upon my, an evil person's, crown,
And inspire me to mix my body, speech and mind with Dharma.
This perfect support with its freedoms and advantages
Presents a one-in-a-hundred-lifetimes opportunity.
With the mirror of this human life of leisure
Unspoilt by demonic forces, may I make it meaningful
And exert myself with intense effort in the sacred Dharma.
I cannot be certain which will come first:
Tomorrow or the appearances of the next life.
And since this wicked habit of procrastination
Will only ruin my chances of lasting happiness,
May I apply myself to the Dharma ever so swiftly.
Having ignited the great forest fire of diligence,
So that the ocean of saṃsāric existence runs dry,
The incalculable acts, good and bad, that I’ve amassed
Will not be apportioned to anybody else.
All the weapons I’ve forged will be deployed against me,
And I will undoubtedly experience my own comeuppance.
May I find certainty as to the infallible ripening of actions,
The unerring fruition of wholesome and unwholesome acts.
As the major consequence of accumulated evil deeds,
I will suffer uninterruptedly in the realms of saṃsāra.
The torments of the three lower realms are unbearable.
The joys of the higher realms transform and fade away.
We are trapped within the sufferings that origination brings.
Not even so much as an atom is immune to the three sufferings.
In order to interrupt the flow of negative tendencies
May I follow a guide who shows the way to liberation.
May I encounter precious bodhicitta, which is
The essence of Dharma, the excellent, unmistaken way.
May I recollect the sources of refuge, guru and three supreme jewels,
And with faith and devotion, may I establish the foundation of the path.
Guarding the guru's instructions like the heart within my chest,
May I offer fervent prayer at all times,
And may the glorious guru inspire me with blessings.
Sentient beings have been so very kind to me:
They have been my parents throughout beginningless time—
Kind mothers, who have treated me with boundless care.
Now they are immersed in the ocean of suffering,
Seized by the sea monsters of misery and misdeeds.
Thinking about this well, it is impossible to bear;
It is enough to make me weep profusely
And engender overwhelming love and compassion.
All my own happiness I transmit to my old mothers,
And their suffering, in cause and result, I take upon myself.
May I even give away this body of mine countless times
And conquer the terrible demon of self-clinging.
All faults arise from my clinging to a self.
All beings including my supposed enemies
Are simply teachers offering me assistance.
Enemies, demons and obstacles are my own delusion.
Sickness and evil influences are but buddha manifestations,
Gods and demons, assistants of awakening;
Fortune and advantage, the contrivance of māras.
May sickness, suffering and adversity
Assist me as I develop supreme bodhicitta.
The unmistakable enemy is within my heart:
This great demon of attachment to I and mine.
Now that I see it, through the guru's kindness,
I shall certainly take the sufferings that you,
O demon, so dislike and give them all to you.
Fame, riches and the things that delight you
I shall steal them all from you without exception
And give them away to the beings you revile.
May they receive this gift of mine in such a way.
Noble sentient beings are exceptionally kind.
May I never seek to awaken myself if this would
Make me a bad friend to them,
But act as an ordinary being for ordinary beings' sake.
Let this body of mine become a wish-granting jewel
To fulfil the hopes and aspirations of all beings,
So that they may attain supreme and perfect awakening,
And may this supreme mind not decline but further increase.
Donning the armour of hardship and endurance,
May I realise how all phenomena lack true reality.
And with the supreme vajra mind that has no beginning, middle or end,
The unobstructed emptiness and clarity of the ultimate nature,
May I banish the darkness of the two kinds of obscuration,
And with the expansive light of genuine wisdom,
Have the power and skill to come to beings' aid.
Realizing the liberational deeds of the heroic Mañjuśrī
And immersing myself in oceanic bodhisattva activity
For as long as sentient beings remain,
May I perfectly accomplish their welfare.
May I make offerings to an ocean of buddhas,
Thoroughly purify an ocean of realms,
Bring to maturity an ocean of beings,
And access the vast ocean of wisdom.