Concise Consecration Ritual
hūṃ hūṃ hūṃ
oṃ sarva-tathāgata-abhiṣekate samaya-śrīye hūṃ
oṃ svabhāva śuddhāḥ sarvadharmāḥ svabhāva śuddho ‘haṃ
From within the state of emptiness, the representation of enlightened body is visualized as Vairocana,
That of enlightened speech as Amitāyus,
And that of enlightened mind as Vajra-Akṣobhya. From their hearts radiates light,
Which invites the wisdom deities from the pure realm of The Unsurpassed. 1 Vajra samāja !
jaḥ hūṃ baṃ hoḥ
Clearly visualize oṃ āḥ hūṃ in the three places of the representations. Light radiates out and invites the deities of the three vajras. They dissolve and become indivisible from the enlightened body, speech and mind of the representations.
Once again, from their hearts radiates light that invites the empowerment deities, who then grant the empowerment.
The five stains are purified and the five primordial wisdoms are actualized.
The remaining water flows to the crown of my head and is stabilised. I become the Lord of the Families adorned with a crown of the five families.
oṃ jñāna-cakṣu-praveśāya phaṭ
oṃ āḥ hūṃ svāhā
The deities previously generated now transform into the forms of the representations.
oṃ sarva-tathāgata-mahāpūja pratīccha hoḥ
oṃ puruṣāya hoḥ
oṃ supratiṣṭha-vajraye svāhā
oṃ ye dharmā hetuprabhavā hetuṃ teṣāṃ tathāgato hy avadat | teṣāṃ ca yo nirodha evaṃ vādī mahāśramaṇaḥ svāhā ||
Oṃ! Remain here, one with these images and objects,
For the benefit of beings;
Grant us freedom from illness, and grant us long life, power and prosperity, and
Make everything supremely auspicious—we pray!
May the day be well, may the night be well,
May the mid-hours bring happiness too,
May the day and night be always well—
Buddha, Dharma, and Saṅgha, grant this here and now!
Glorious masters, grant this here and now!
Yidam deities, grant this here and now!
Dharma protectors and guardians, grant this here and now!
Local deities, grant this here and now!
May all the spirits gathered in this place—
Be it on the earth, in the water, or in the sky—
Always show goodwill and kindness to all beings,
And practise Dharma day and night!
The victorious buddhas, conquerors of the enemies,
Only ever utter the truth and never what is false;
Through this truth, may everything be virtuous and positive here and now!
And may we all be freed from every major fear!
May everything be auspicious here and now, so that we yogin s and yoginī s, and all those around us, our teachers and our patrons, be freed from all the harms of solar and lunar eclipses, and liberated from every form of destructive influence, obstacle, and adversity!
jaya jaya sujaya