The Spontaneous Vajra Song of Fulfilment and Confession from the Heart-Essence of the Vast Expanse General Fulfilment of the Nine Vehicles The Three Piṭakas 1. The Maṇḍala of the Śrāvakas and the Vinaya 2. The Maṇḍala of the Pratyekabuddhas and the Sūtras 3. The Maṇḍala of the Bodhisattvas and the Abhidharma Three Outer Tantras of Secret Mantra 1. Kriyā 2. Caryā 3. Yoga Tantra The Three Inner Tantras of Unsurpassable Secret Mantra 1. Tantra Mahāyoga 2. Scriptural Transmission Anuyoga 3. Luminous Great Perfection (Atiyoga) General and Specific Offerings to the Three Roots, Ḍākinīs and Oath-Bound Ones The Outer Offering The Inner Offering The Secret Offering Aspiration Prayer Dedication
Namo. The essence of the sugatas pervades all beings.
I generate bodhicitta—thorough, expansive, and supreme.
For all beings possess the cause of buddhahood;
Not a single one is unsuitable as a vessel.
Arise, arise, all you deities who possess the ten powers.
Do not delay! But through the force of your compassion,
Come, Three Jewels concerned for beings’ welfare,
To this place, created and arranged through my own imagination.
Come now, all you victorious ones, together with your retinues.
Vajra samāja. Padmakamalāyas tvaṃ
Oṃ. In the torma container—the outer universe of imputed appearance,
Dependent existence, the torma of the inner contents, is purified.
Through realization of the perfect, the vast expanse of dharmadhātu,
Appearance and existence arise as Samantabhadra’s offering clouds, spontaneously manifest in the ground of reality,
And I gain mastery over the changeless treasury of space.
namaḥ sarva tathāgatebhayo viśva mukhebhyaḥ sarvathākhaṃ udgate spharaṇa imaṃ gagana khaṃ svāhā
Āḥ. Within the sphere of the naturally arising, spontaneously perfect body of rainbows and light-rays
Is the magical display of the eight collections of consciousness, the city of rākṣasas.
At my heart’s centre is the palace of the Copper-Coloured Mountain—
May the noble intentions of the great Guru, embodiment of all buddha families, be fulfilled. 2
The basic space of the ground, clarity and emptiness, is Samantabhadra,
Whose realization is transferred through ground-appearance, the sambhogakāya expression,
In a maṇḍala that transcends symbols, words and the conceptual mind—
May the noble intentions of the mind-direct lineage of twofold purity be fulfilled.
The sambhogakāya’s expression, spontaneously perfect and complete with fivefold certainty,
Communicates through signs to the vidyādhara assembly of pure awareness,
So that dance-like emanations continue the transmission of the mind-direct and symbolic in perfect words—
May the noble intentions of the aural lineage that brings great liberation upon hearing be fulfilled.
By conferring the empowerment of the great scrolls of coded signs
Upon the hearts of fortunate individuals with a karmic connection,
The secret treasury of realizing the intended meaning is unlocked—
May the noble intentions of the transmissions through entrustment-seal and empowerment-through-aspiration be fulfilled.
May all errors, such as parting from the all-pervasive realization
Of my own pure awareness, which is and has always been Samantabhadra,
And searching for buddhahood elsewhere, be purified,
And may I arrive at the state that is beyond activity and exertion.
In the vision of vastness, primordial purity beyond all limits and dimensions,
There are no distinct vehicles to be enumerated.
Yet, to fit disciples’ ideas, temperaments, capacities and attitudes,
Nine vehicles have arisen: may the noble intentions of the buddhas be fulfilled.
Having understood saṃsāra to be great suffering,
And set out on the relative path of the four truths,
Śrāvakas cut through the bonds of self-grasping—
May the noble intentions of the five gatherings be fulfilled.
All faults that come from contravening the great Vinaya piṭaka of individual liberation,
Both proscribed and inherently negative actions,
I neither hide nor conceal but confess from the depths of my heart:
May the noble arhats inspire me with their blessing.
Controlling the mind through training in higher discipline,
Realizing that the aggregates and the rest lack true reality,
And reversing the twelve links of dependent origination—
May the noble intentions of the four pratyekabuddha maṇḍalas be fulfilled!
With pure discipline and unwavering meditative absorption,
All breakages of precepts related to the training of the Sūtra piṭaka,
I remorsefully confess: may they be cleansed and purified.
Grant me the accomplishment of the group-dwelling and rhinoceros-like pratyekabuddhas.
Recognizing that all phenomena are like magical illusions,
Courageously working for others’ benefit out of compassion,
And bringing the two truths onto the path—may the noble intentions
Of the Abhidharma piṭaka maṇḍalas, as numerous as the directions, be fulfilled! 3
With the wisdom of discernment and meditative absorption,
May I purify the faults of straying into eternalism, nihilism and the four extremes
And of causing the shoots of compassion to wither,
And may I reach the level of Universal Radiance!
Upholding threefold purity 4 and the three types of cleanliness, 5
Practising with separate samaya- and wisdom-being in the manner of lord and servant,
And making a path of the bliss that comes from gazing—
May the noble intentions of the deities of the six Kriyā-tantra maṇḍalas be fulfilled!
By practising the method of Kriyā and discipline of Yogatantra
In equal measure in this, the neuter vehicle,
Supreme victorious maṇḍalas are cultivated through the five manifest awakenings—
May the noble intentions of the ocean-like Caryā-tantra maṇḍalas be fulfilled.
I openly confess all subtle and coarse impairments of the samayas
Related to deity, mantra and samādhi in both Kriyā and Caryā tantra.
May a shower of the eight great accomplishments— 6
Of the celestial realm and the rest—rain down unceasingly!
With the truth of threefold purity—outer, inner and secret, 7
Deity and yoga are realized as great non-duality,
And the four mudrās and profound, clear samādhi are attained—
May the noble intentions of the nine-sector maṇḍala of Yogatantra be fulfilled.
Viewing myself and the deity in terms of good and bad,
Discontinuing approach and accomplishment or the fire offering,
And all downfalls in the branches of maṇḍala cultivation—
Please forgive such faults and grant me the supreme attainment.
In the vast expanse of bliss-emptiness, the sphere of the three samādhis,
There arise, through the generation phase, the peaceful and wrathful deities of the Illusory Display, the Eight Herukas, and so on,
As the infinite purity of the outer world and its contents—
May the noble intentions of the twelve maṇḍala gatherings be fulfilled.
I confess all harmful actions and obscurations, impairments and breakages,
Of such vows as the twenty-five commitments—five to be recognised, 8 five that must not be abandoned, 9
Five to be accepted, 10 five to be accomplished 11 and five to be enacted, 12 as well as the ten secrets, 13 and the rest.
May I reach the four levels of a vidyādhara!
Within the great celestial palace of the body’s subtle structure,
Are the three channels, five chakras and a sphere of rainbow light,
The union of basic space and wisdom, the power of awareness—
May the noble intentions of the maṇḍala of Anuyoga be fulfilled!
With the eight collections of consciousness, twenty secondary afflictions,
Fifty-one mental factors and eighty-four thousand concepts
All purified, the form of the mudrā is perfect upon recollection—
May I reach the level of co-emergent great bliss!
In the innate celestial palace of unimpeded cognizance and awareness
Are the six lamps of primordial radiance and the expanse of rainbows, rays and light-spheres, 14
Where awareness matures into the vital essence, deities of Ati—
May the noble intention wherein clinging to faces and hands is purified be fulfilled.
By training in the vajra chains of self-liberated pure awareness,
And by applying the three postures and three gazes,
May I attain the fourth vision, the primordial space in which phenomena are exhausted,
And reach the level of spontaneously present great perfection!
In short, within the expanse of infinite, oceanic maṇḍalas,
All the guests of existence and quiescence are designated through awareness as distinct. 15
All of these, as numerous as atoms, with none omitted, as well as
The nature of appearances and the male protectors, Za Rāhula;
The essence of emptiness and the female protectors, Ekajaṭī;
And appearance and emptiness indivisible in compassionate energy, Vajrasādhu:
Together with all the guardians of the powerful teachings of Nyingtik,
Those of Oḍḍiyāna, India, Nepal and Kashmir,
Of the land of Azha, 16 Drusha 17 and the Copper Land, 18
Of the lesser isles of Suvarṇadvīpa, Cāmara, and Laṅka,
Of China, the valleys of Yunnan, 19 and the warrior country of Gesar, 20
Of Tsāritra, 21 the southern district of Mön, 22 Sikkim,
The three provinces of Ngari and four of Ü Tsang,
Of the six ranges of Dokham and sacred hidden lands,
Of the five valleys, the six continents, 23 the golden mountains, and summit of Sumeru,
Of the Heaven of the Thirty-Three, sacred places, and awesome charnel grounds,
Of Dharma-wheeled temples, places of practice and isolated hermitages,
As well as warrior spirits, ḍākinīs and dharma-protectors,
Who dwell in all the surrounding forests, rocky hills and islands;
Guardians of the direct teachings of the Buddha, teachings that he authorized,
And those that came about through his blessing, as well as prophecies, pure visions, and treatises,
Heart treasures, mind treasures, profound treasures and material treasures—
The eighteen types of terma and dharma that has been entrusted,
As well as all those who dwell on the perimeter of ocean-like maṇḍalas,
All the infinite oath-bound ḍākinīs and guardians of the teachings—
Whatever I have done to upset you, whatever errors I have made,
I confess from the depth of my heart: show me the expression of forgiveness, I pray!
The sphere of the Great Middle Way is free from the extremes of eternalism and nihilism.
Through merging with the Great Seal that is the union of saṃsāra and nirvāṇa, rasanā and lalanā , 24
There is the Great Perfection, free from attachment to appearances and mind,
And in meditative absorption the illusory display that is the treasury of space:
‘Phaṭ’ scatters dualistic grasping, and, in the great aftermath of its destruction,
Upon encountering the essence of consciousness beyond the ordinary mind,
The eight collections of consciousness in their primordial purity are the auspicious signs;
Phenomena arise as adornments in the form of the seven royal emblems;
The five sensory pleasures are liberated in naked awareness and emptiness;
And negative circumstances, taken as the path, become the deity’s gestures and dance-like display.
With this, I offer! Let an ocean of supreme and ordinary accomplishments gather!
In the kapāla of the vast expanse, the youthful vase body,
I offer the blood of subjugated arrogant spirits, thoughts related to the three poisons;
The balingta of the great and total freedom of the three kāyas;
The five meats and five nectars that are the eradication of hope and fear;
The essence of the sun and moon with eight principal and a thousand minor ingredients—
All the self-arisen, spontaneously present inner samaya substances,
I offer: grant me the siddhi of perfecting yogic conduct.
In the expanse of the bhaga that is great primordial basic space
The vajra of awareness that is endowed with the supreme of all aspects
Liberates saṃsāric tendencies by reversing the process of dependent origination,
And the four joys of bliss-emptiness are experienced as the play of perfect mastery.
The secret substances of the perfection of the yogic disciplines of union and liberation,
I offer: grant me the siddhi of controlling others’ perceptions.
With tangible substances and intangible samādhi,
I offer you the mudrās of accomplishing the four types of activity
And the powerful weapon of forceful liberation:
When a yogi who trains in the bodhicitta of aspiration and action and wears the roof of a cave as a hat upon the head, 25
And who is without attachment and has renounced saṃsāra,
Faces unfounded accusations, idle gossip or malicious conduct,
Obstacles to practice or anything that disturbs the mind,
Drink the heart-blood of such enemies and spirits of perverse aspiration!
From the volume of text that is bound within my blue-black locks
Down to the lowliest items that I possess and employ—
Whatever, in short, this yogic practitioner holds dear,
I offer as a life-stone 26 for the Three Roots, oath-bound ones and ḍākinīs.
In forests and remote lands, on islands, in rocky shelters, and other such places—
So that I might cultivate awakening in undetermined locations,
As I wander like a tigress passing through mountain valleys,
Please accompany this yogi as a shadow follows the body.
Bound through attachment to the inanimate world and animate beings, appearances and mind,
I am held in the illusion of deceitful thoughts, both coarse and subtle.
In the expanse of simultaneous arising and liberation, in which existence and peace are non-dual,
I offer: may I reach the level at which phenomena are exhausted into dharmatā!
Through the movement of karmic winds from the state of the all-ground,
Habitual tendencies envelop mind’s true nature, sealing it as in a womb.
The elements of flesh, blood, warmth and breath—the body’s constituents—I offer.
May I accomplish the rainbow body!
All sources of virtue amassed throughout the three times, as represented by this practice,
Are, with the immaculate wisdom of pure presence and awareness,
Sealed within the great and total purity of the three spheres,
And in the expanse of the Great Perfection, the natural state: āḥ!