The Source of Accomplishment, the Fruit of the Twofold Truth A Prayer to the Wisdom Ḍākinī Dechen Gyalmo
Guru deva ḍākinī sarva siddhi phala hūṃ
Manifesting from the palace of bliss and emptiness free from elaboration,
Dharmakāya teachers, Samantabhadra and Samantabhadrī,
To you I pray from the state of non-duality, free from grasping;
Bless me to attain the youthful vase body!
Manifesting from the palace of the spontaneously accomplished union of appearance and emptiness,
Sambhogakāya teachers, lord and lady deities of the five families,
Immersed in the great bliss of union, I pray to you:
Bless me to attain the sambhogakāya, free from extremes!
Manifesting from the vast expanse of the unceasing dynamic display of clarity and emptiness,
Nirmāṇakāya teachers who, due to compassion, manifest in forms beyond the imagination—
To you I pray with the three kinds of faith. 1
Bless me to attain the nirmāṇakāya to tame beings!
To you who resides at the palace of Unsurpassable Lotus Light,
Padmasambhava, the regent of the Teacher,
I pray, remembering your kindness;
Bless me to attain the unchanging vajra body!
To you, the sovereign of all the sacred places, charnel grounds, and celestial lands,
Jñāna Sāgara, 2 Vajravārāhī in person,
I pray from the state of the sixteenfold bliss;
Bless me to realize the union of bliss and emptiness free from grasping at duality!
To you who are the mother of all the Victorious Ones, the ḍākinī whose three secrets
Encompass the hundred sacred deities of the three seats of completeness,
I pray from the state of freedom from attachment and grasping at reality;
Bless me to realize the hosts of deities and myself as one taste.
To the master who is the embodiment of essence, nature and compassion,
Khyentse Özer, the son of the three roots,
As I increase my faith and strengthen my samayas, I pray to you:
Bless me to merge your wisdom mind and my mind as one!
Manifesting from the vast expanse of all-pervading compassion for the benefit of beings,
Jikmé Trinle Özer Palbar—
Continuously honouring our samaya bond, I pray to you:
Bless me to accomplish the infinite enlightened activities!
Manifesting from the vast expanse where you tame vast numbers of beings,
Vidyādhara Jikmé Gyalwe Nyugu—
To you I pray, while remembering your life and liberation;
Bless me to benefit all beings impartially!
Manifesting from the palace of infinite, ocean-like Dharma,
Jampal Dorje Dongak Lingpa—
To you I pray, sincerely, with my body, speech and mind;
Bless me to travel the profound path to the very end!
Manifesting from the chakra of inseparable great bliss at the crown of my head,
Root master, in all your incomparable kindness—
To you I pray, with unshakeable devotion;
Bless me to sustain myself with the nectar of the mind-transmission!
By praying in this way, and through your compassion, may I realize that while all phenomena of saṃsāra and nirvāṇa are
A magical display, like the eight great similes of illusion, on the relative level,
On the absolute level, they are the buddha nature 3 —
This is the supreme Middle Way, the nirvāṇa devoid of extremes.
By directly seeing the face of the wisdom ḍākinī, Mahāmudrā and Dzogchen inseparable,
May I obtain the glorious power to establish all limitless beings
In the supreme state of the deity without a self,
The yoginī Yeshe Tsogyal!