Fostering Recollection to Dispel the Torment of Deluded Perception An Aspiration for the Bardos
At the feet of the glorious guru, the victorious ones and their heirs, we pay homage.
Care for me at all times with your magnificent love, alleviate all the terrors of deluded perception during this life, the next and the bardo states, inspire us to recognise the bardos and lead us to a pure realm, we pray.
You protect from all the torridity and torment of conditioned existence,
And the mere thought of you closes the door to lower realms,
Revealer of the path to liberation, gracious lord of Dharma,
Supreme guide, great face and embodiment of all sources of refuge, care for us!
As we pray to you with ardent, single-pointed devotion
And without the slightest duplicity or hypocrisy,
Look upon us with compassion in this life, the next and throughout the bardo states.
Guru, essence of unfailing refuge, care for us!
When it comes time to die, may we not experience a sudden, painful end,
But instead hold the natural state of awareness
And pray to the guru with yearning faith and devotion,
While we practically apply the instructions for the moment of death.
Holding the hook of mindfulness and vigilance during meditation and thereafter,
May we recognise all these deluded perceptions
As the appearances of the intermediate state
And thus apply the path to the bardo of birth and death.
No matter how these appearances of outer world and inhabitants may arise,
They are by nature empty.
Recognising this and transforming them into yidam deities and wisdom,
May we apply the path to the bardo of dream.
When the appearances of this life are about to fade away,
The five winds will dissolve, the five chakras disintegrate.
Physical strength will diminish, the sound of voices grow unclear,
Memory will deteriorate and consciousness become dim.
Sensory awareness will fade and objects become imperceptible.
Then may we recognise the signs—
Of smoke, haze, fireflies, and lamps—
And apply the instruction of the triple moment of passing. 1
The subtle stages of dissolution are appearance, increase and attainment.
When consciousness dissolves into appearance,
The white element descends and there is total whiteness.
The thirty-three thought-states associated with anger cease. 2
At that time may we recognise the wisdom of appearance.
Then when appearance dissolves into increase,
The red element ascends and there is an experience of total redness.
The forty thought-states associated with desire cease.
Then may we recognise the wisdom of increase.
Then, between whiteness and redness consciousness is lost.
The seven thought-states associated with delusion cease,
And there is a vision of blackness, approaching unconsciousness.
At that time may we recognise the wisdom of attainment.
Then, when the ground luminosity of near-attainment dawns,
Beyond ordinary mental objects and clear as an autumn sky,
May the child-like path luminosity
Meet the mother that is the clear light of the ground.
If, due to our weak familiarity at that stage,
We fail in recognition, then, in an instant,
The appearances of the bardo of becoming will dawn,
And when the four dreadful sounds, three terrifying abysses,
And six uncertain experiences arise,
May we recollect the guru, the deity and the view,
And take rebirth in a pure celestial realm.
Even if we are connected to a place of birth,
May we close the womb-door of any lesser form of rebirth
And seek the excellent support of a dharma practitioner.
May we gain a form complete with the six elements
And meet a spiritual guide as soon as we are reborn,
So that we may practise the sacred Dharma authentically, without error.
In short, in all future lives and rebirths
May we follow the path praised by the victorious ones,
Savour the sūtra and mantra Dharma of the Great Vehicle,
And realize the fruition of the four kāyas.