The Supreme Bestowal of Twofold Attainment A Prayer to Orgyen Rinpoche, Embodiment of All Sources of Refuge
Oṃ āḥ hūṃ vajra guru padma siddhi hūṃ
In the dharmadhātu palace of the primordially pure nature,
Is the dharmakāya guru, unborn and beyond conceptual elaboration—
To you I pray from the state of the union of awareness and emptiness:
Inspire me to realize the youthful vase body!
In the spontaneously perfect palace complete with the five certainties 1
Is the Saṃbhogakāya Vairocana with the seven aspects of union— 2
To you I pray from the state of the union of clarity and emptiness:
Inspire me to realize the sambhogakāya of bliss-emptiness!
In the immeasurable palace of the Lotus Net of Akaniṣṭha,
Is the compassionate nirmāṇakāya Padmasambhava—
To you I pray from the state of the union of appearance and emptiness:
Inspire me to realize the nirmāṇakāya that tames as needed!
In the expanse of luminous bindus wherein space and awareness are indivisible,
Is the embodiment of all the three-kāya families, Perpetual Bearer of the Lotus—
To you I pray from the indivisible state of my own awareness,
Inspire me to realize the svabhāvikakāya!
In the palace that extends throughout all kāyas and realms,
Is the guru Samantabhadra of Unchanging Light—
To you I pray in the natural clarity beyond omission or addition—
Inspire me to realize the abhisaṃbodhikāya!
Orgyen Dorje Chang, embodiment of these five kāyas,
Your names and manifestations inconceivable and indescribable,
Great and glorious one, supreme sovereign of oceanic mandalas,
As I pray to you with fervent and intense devotion,
Look down from your paternal space upon this devoted child:
Consider me with love and confer the blessings of your three secrets.
Avert the illusion of outer, inner and secret obstacles.
Cause all our wishes to be spontaneously fulfilled.
Let any enlightened activities of the four kinds reach completion.
Let the visions of naturally arisen wisdom increase.
And with all knots in channels, winds and mind undone,
Let us reach the ultimate level of Unsurpassable Wisdom,
So that we may become inseparable from mighty Padmavajra!