All Wishes Swiftly Fulfilled A Prayer to the Mahāguru of Uḍḍiyāna in Eight Chapters Chapter One Chapter Two Chapter Three Chapter Four Chapter Five Chapter Six Chapter Seven Chapter Eight
oṃ āḥ hūṃ vajra-guru-padma siddhi hūṃ
Oṃ is the vajra body of deathless wisdom.
Āḥ is the vajra speech of the all-pervasive dharmadhātu.
Hūṃ is the vajra mind of unchanging great bliss.
Great Master of Uḍḍiyāna, to you we pray!
Vajra is the ever-pure citadel of the dharmadhātu free from complexity, 1
Guru is the five skull-garlanded buddhas 2 laden with great bliss,
Padma is the immaculate, self-arisen second Buddha, 3
Guru of three kāyas indivisible, to you we pray!
Siddhi , by accomplishing the common path’s four vidyādhara stages
And pacifying outer, inner, and secret obstacles,
All our wishes are fulfilled, just as we desire, thus
Hūṃ —merge us indivisibly with the wisdom bindu!
Oṃ is Samantabhadra’s wisdom transmission to the buddhas.
Āḥ is the Magical Net’s 5 symbolic transmission to the vidyādharas.
Hūṃ is the chariot of Padmasambhava’s aural transmission.
Glorious lord, guru of the three transmissions, to you we pray!
Vajra is the unsurpassed path of tantra, the Secret Mantra.
Guru is the dance of peaceful and wrathful gurus, yidams, and ḍākinīs.
Padma , you appear like a garland of lotuses in limitless ways.
Universal lord of infinite maṇḍalas, to you we pray!
Treasury of an immeasurable ocean of teachings, terma and pith instructions,
Siddhi is the jñāna accomplished by the great secret path,
The flourishing of these teachings and their holders; all hindrances pacified,
Hūṃ , may we accomplish Vajrasattva, the universal lord!
Oṃ is the utterly clear space of the youthful vase.
Āḥ is the joyous realm of the Lord of Dance’s 6 great bliss.
Hūṃ is our own perception of the heavenly palace of Lotus Light. 7
Lord of the three-kāya buddha fields, to you we pray!
Vajra basic space is the vast mansion within which the
Guru of Uḍḍiyāna shows his great taming display.
Padma sambhava, born with the five perfect certainties,
Realm, teacher and retinue, to you we pray!
Siddhi , if we have not reached the end of the vajra path,
May we still instantly be reborn in your pure realm,
Gaze upon your face directly and receive your prophecy. 8
Hūṃ , may we experience the single taste of Lotus-Born wisdom!
Oṃ is the primordial buddha, Samantabhadra. 10
Āḥ is the five supreme skull-garlanded families of the Magical Net.
Hūṃ is the lake-born teacher of this world of Endurance. 11
Holder of the six transmissions, 12 to you we pray!
Vajra is the Magical Net tantra 13 and the Eight Pronouncements. 14
Guru is the all-inclusive expanse of wisdom consciousness.
Skull-garlanded Padma , you are an ocean-vast treasury of siddhis,
At the feet of the Second Buddha, we pray!
Siddhi is the single sphere of jñāna , and its radiance
Is the pure display of deity, mantra and wisdom.
May its power naturally clear the darkness of dualistic delusion,
Hūṃ , becoming non-dual within the expanse of wisdom!
Oṃ is the Lord of Deathlessness, Amitābha.
Āḥ is Vajra Speech, White Lotus Bearer, Avalokiteśvara.
Hūṃ is the Snowy Land’s teacher, who knows all three times, Padmasambhava.
Single embodiment of the wisdom of all victors, to you we pray!
Vajra -kāya immortal who took birth amidst the waters,
Guru of great bliss, your life activities are inconceivable!
Padma -like in beauty are your deeds filled with marvels,
You who embody the twelve syllables’ meaning, to you we pray. 15
Siddhi —in order to awaken inseparably from you,
We invoke you with this fervent prayer:
May the troubles of these difficult times be quelled, the glories of happiness and bliss be enjoyed,
Hūṃ , great secret, may we awaken to you!
Oṃ is the space-like vajra body extending everywhere.
Āḥ is the variegated speech pervading everything.
Hūṃ is the mind all-knowing, loving, and powerful in compassion.
Guru of the vajras indivisible, to you we pray!
Vajra is the basic space of the inexhaustible adornment wheel.
Guru is the activity of you, who are equal to all buddhas.
Padma -born, immaculate, with qualities complete,
Matchless teacher of immeasurable kindness, to you we pray!
Siddhi is your care motivated by compassion,
From which we of excellent fortune are inseparable.
Your awakened activity in taming us, so hard to tame, endures like space.
Hūṃ , please always, everywhere, spontaneously care for us!
Oṃ is the great source of infinite kinds of auspiciousness.
Āḥ is Amitābha, in the form of the deathless vidyādhara.
Hūṃ is the King of Great Bliss who prevails over all existence,
Wish-fulfilling jewel of Uḍḍiyāna, to you we pray!
Vajra , ultimate wisdom, is non-dual, and yet
Guru displays in forms that fulfill all of our wishes.
Padma king, I remember you, with your thirteen manifestations, 17
Effortlessly fulfill our wishes, we pray!
Siddhi is the unchanging great bliss, from which we’re inseparable,
While disharmonies are pacified, up until awakening.
Hūṃ , we call for the effortless fulfillment of all wishes and goals,
In so doing, may all of our wishes be fulfilled!
Oṃ is the dharmakāya, Amitāyus of Infinite Light.
Āḥ is the sambhogakāya, Avalokiteśvara, Tamer of Beings.
Hūṃ is Padmasambhava, Prevailer over All Existence.
Three-Kāya Guru, to you we pray!
Vajra -dhūti, 18 in its true significance, takes the delightful forms of the
Guru , manifesting as the twelve vidyādharas. 19
Padma , to you, embodiment of the assembly the Magical Net’s deities,
With fierce devotion and unwavering faith, we pray!
Siddhi is attaining the four activities, the eight temporary accomplishments,
And the ultimate, the level of mahāmudrā.
To do so, may we pacify all outer, inner and secret obstacles and
Hūṃ —experience indivisibility—one taste—within the wisdom bindu!