Hook of Compassion The Descent of Blessings
Hūṃ. Hrīḥ.
The dharmakāya, free from all elaboration,
The sambhogakāya of unceasing clarity and emptiness,
And the nirmāṇakāya expression of resonant awareness—
Three-kāya guru, shower down your blessings!
Vidyādharas of mind-direct, sign and aural lineages
And deities who hold the force of awareness,
Enhance the power of blessings and realization,
Shower down blessings and confer supreme empowerment!
Vidyādhara embodiment of all, guru of great bliss,
Mahāguru Padmasambhava,
With your countless billions of emanations—
The five enlightened forms, eight manifestations and the rest,
Shower down your blessings upon this maṇḍala!
Cause the articles of accomplishment to shine in vivid splendour!
Yidam deities with whom we have connections from the past,
Eight Awesome Ones, the vidyādharas’ means of attainment,
Peaceful and wrathful deities from the Illusory Net,
Boundless Life, Boundless Light, Great Compassionate One, and the rest—
Hosts of yidam deities, come here now,
Shower down your blessings and grant attainments!
Queen of Space, Vajravārāhī,
Ḍākinī with the face of a lion,
Glorious yoginī Tsogyal and the rest,
Hosts of ḍākinīs residing throughout three-kāya realms,
Shower down your blessings!
Ocean of oath-bound guardians of the three lineages,
Wealth deities, treasure-keepers, protectors of locales,
Infinite valorous ones, male and female,
Shower blessings upon this place! Accomplish your activity!
Do not neglect us! Compassionate deities, do not neglect us!
Approach now through your dance of delight,
And reveal the great power of your blessings and capacity.
Now the time has come to bestow attainments!
Bless the whole of appearance and existence,
Habitat and inhabitants, with the wisdom mudrā.
Bring about attainment of the supreme vajra-kāya.
Shower down great blessings, confer supreme empowerment.
Swiftly reveal to us the signs and indications.
Cause all our hopes for success to be realized,
And bestow attainments, ordinary and supreme.
vajra-jñāna āveśaya a āḥ