Burgeoning Joy and Happiness An Aspiration for the Welfare of the Great Hidden Land of Sikkim
Namo guru!
Embodiment of the Three Jewels, Three Roots and Three Kāyas,
Protector and guardian of all beings without exception—Guru Padmākara,
Together with Vimalamitra, Vairotsana, Trisong Detsen, Tsogyal and the rest,
All the lineages of vidyādharas for kama and terma,
Peaceful and wrathful yidam deities, ḍākinīs and dharma-protectors,
Wealth deities, treasure-keepers and the rest—
All supreme sources of refuge who have mastered the treasury
Of wisdom, love and spiritual power, turn your attention towards us!
May the whole world in general and this hidden land in particular,
The Fruit-Filled Valley—Sikkim—like the glorious mountain Lotus Light
Transported to earth as a blessed place of accomplishment,
Be cleansed of all impurity, stains of transgression and defilement.
May the deities of the Three Roots remain forever,
Bringing down great rains of auspiciousness and vajra-blessings upon the environment and beings,
Spreading the riches of the ten virtues and four aspects of well-being 1 throughout the land,
And summoning the essence of wealth and prosperity from throughout existence and quiescence.
May the dominion of the dharma-endowed king grow in strength,
His progeny flourish and his life be secure and long.
May hostile opposing forces, harm-doers and obstacle-makers
Be utterly vanquished—destroyed and turned to dust.
May the definitive teachings of the Secret Essence spread far and wide.
May the minds of living beings be filled with love.
May they regard one another as dear parents from former lives,
And genuinely devote themselves to virtuous action.
May the prayers of the glorious heruka Namkha Jigme
And the rest—those known as the four yogi-confrères 2
Be fulfilled without obstacle, and may the aspirations and prophecies
Of Guru Padma be shown to be infallible.
May the activity of asuras and beguiling gongpo spirits
Be brought to an end, and may all be auspicious
So that this treasury of fortune, this vajra dome of fearlessness
Remains forever, a beacon of virtue and positivity!