The Revelling Ocean of Blessings A Prayer to Tsarchen Dorje Chang
Emaho!
Embodiment of all the buddhas’ compassion,
Vajradhara in person, Tsarpa Lord of Dharma,
I offer you the blossoming white lotus of my heart
And pray to you with unshakeable, heartfelt devotion.
The crown adornment of all the Snowy Land’s scholars and adepts
Was Virūpa, whose teachings passed to the noble Sakya patriarchs
In an aural lineage of private instruction.
Lord Tsarpa, who imbibed this nectar of profound meaning,
Heroic father Losal Gyatso, to you I pray.
Master of the one-to-one transmission of Golden Dharmas
Of yidam deities, ḍākinīs, dharma guardians and the like,
Which was passed from Nāropa and the brahmin Vararuci,
Down through the great Ra, Drokmi and others—to you I pray.
You captivated minds with the purity of your ethical training,
Were unimpeded as you entered and rose from a hundred samādhis,
And in the great treasury of your threefold wisdom, you were Mañjughoṣa in person—
Glorious and supreme guru, to you I pray.
Skilled in exposition, you attracted myriads of brilliant minds,
In debate you crushed the mountain of your adversaries to dust,
And through composition illuminated the peak of Buddha’s teachings—
To you whose perfect wisdom was unbounded, I pray.
In your vast love, you acted only for the welfare of others;
With your power and strength, you crushed Māra’s hordes.
You constantly beheld the delighted faces of the yidam deities.
And actualized all the signs of approach and accomplishment—to you I pray.
Through the generation phase, all appearances arose in the form of the deity,
And through the perfection phase, the motions of winds and essences dissolved.
You overcame the three obscurations together with their habitual traces,
And perfected the qualities of the paths and stages—to you I pray.
King of all the vajra-holders of this degenerate age,
Vajra guru, the thought of whom is sufficient, Lord Tsarpa—
As I supplicate you, constantly with unshakeable devotion,
Bestow a mighty river of blessings here and now, I pray.
Cause me to realize the nature of awareness-emptiness directly,
Dissolve the fourfold motion and actualize the four kāyas,
Spontaneously accomplish my own and others’ aims,
And become your very equal, O sovereign of Dharma!