The New Glorious Bestower of Immortality 1 A Long-Life Practice and Empowerment that Unites the Oral, Treasure and Visionary Teachings 1.1. Setting up a Shrine 1.2. The Approach: The Self-Visualization 1.3. The Accomplishment of the Practice of the Front Visualisation 2. The Long-Life Blessing for the Disciples 3. The Daily Practice
Namo guru amideva āyurjñāna siddhi hrīḥ
oṃ āḥ hūṃ
namaḥ sarva tathāgatebhayo viśva mukhebhyaḥ sarvathākhaṃ udgate spharaṇa imaṃ gagana khaṃ svāhā
All those who dwell in this place—gods and nāgas,
Yakṣas, rākṣasas, and others—
For the sake of this maṇḍala, in this place,
I pray: please grant us the space!
May we yogins with our disciples
Obtain mastery, freedom from disease, long life,
Glory, fame, good fortune,
And all great and vast enjoyments.
Grant us the siddhis
Of the pacifying, enriching actions and so on.
Samaya holders, guard us.
Support us with all the siddhis.
May there be no untimely death, illness,
Döns, or obstructing spirits for us.
May we have no nightmares,
Ill omens or bad dealings.
May the world enjoy peace, good harvests,
Abundant grain, expansion of Dharma,
And glorious auspiciousness.
Accomplish whatever mind desires!
oṃ sumbha(ni) sumbhani hūṃ | gṛhṇa gṛhṇa hūṃ | gṛhṇāpaya gṛhṇapāya hūṃ | ānaya ho bhagavān vidyārāja hūṃ phaṭ ||
Surrounding me in all directions forms a seamless protection circle of a vajra fence and canopy blazing with wisdom fire.
vajra-rakṣa hūṃ ||
oṃ vajrāmṛta-kuṇḍali hana hana hūṃ phaṭ ||
oṃ svabhāva śuddhāḥ sarvadharmāḥ svabhāva śuddho ‘haṃ ||
Out of emptiness appears the syllable hūṃ within a lotus vessel. The syllable melts and transforms into the wisdom play of cloud banks of divine substances, pristine, clean and immaculate: offering water and cleansing water, flowers, incense, butter lamps, scented water, food and music.
oṃ vajra arghaṃ āḥ hūṃ | oṃ vajra pādyaṃ āḥ hūṃ | oṃ vajra puṣpe āḥ hūṃ | oṃ vajra dhūpe āḥ hūṃ | oṃ vajra āloke āḥ hūṃ | oṃ vajra gandhe āḥ hūṃ | oṃ vajra naivedye āḥ hūṃ | oṃ vajra śabda āḥ hūṃ ||
I take refuge in the Three Jewels,
Confess all my wrongdoing and non-virtuous actions,
Rejoice in the virtues of beings,
And maintain the mind of awakening to buddhahood.
I take refuge in the Buddha, the Dharma and the Supreme Assembly
Until I reach enlightenment.
To fully accomplish the benefit of myself and others
I arouse the heart of the awakening.
Having aroused the supreme heart of awakening,
I will honour all being as my guests
And uphold the supreme awakened conduct, pleasing to all.
For the benefit of beings, I will accomplish buddhahood.
Hūṃ. From the dharmakāya’s equality, devoid of conceptualizations,
As its unceasing magical display, I appear as the sambhogakāya Avalokiteśvara,
Brilliant white, with one face, four hands, and sitting cross-legged.
His first two hands are joined at his heart, and
His lower two hold a crystal mālā and white lotus.
He is ablaze in splendour with all the major and minor marks of the sambhogakāya.
Although appearing vividly he lacks true existence.
On his crown, as the expression of impartial compassion,
Appears Amitābha, lord of the hundred families,
Brilliant red, peacefully smiling, residing within a halo of rainbow light.
His two hands, resting in equipoise, hold a long-life vase,
Which is filled with the luminous essence of the five elements, the medicinal nectar of immortality.
He wears a red dharma robe and he is adorned with all with all the major and minor marks.
He rests in the cross-legged vajra posture upon a lotus and moon-disc seat.
In the centre of his heart, upon a moon-disc, is a red hrīḥ ,
Surrounded by the revolving amāraṇi -mantra.
Light radiates from the mantra and gathers the essence of the five elements of the external world,
The vitality and merit of beings, the compassion of the noble ones,
My dissipated and scattered life force and so forth,
Into the all-embodying vase of longevity and glory.
The nectar overflows and enters my brahma-aperture,
Filling my entire body with great bliss.
oṃ amāraṇī jīvantaye svāhā ||
The empowerment of unchanging, indestructible vajra-life is obtained.
My longevity is sealed within the unborn dharmadhātu.
All the luminous essences of existence and quiescence are drawn into the life-force syllable hrīḥ . At the end, the appearance of the deities’ forms dissolve as well. Rest within the samādhi of suchness.
In front, in the maṇḍala’s centre, appears the Lord of Siddhas, Thangtong Gyalpo, dark red in colour, his radiance majestic and resplendent. His hair, eyebrows and beard sparkle like gold. He appears as one who has lived a hundred years.
In his hands, resting in equipoise, he holds the long-life vase—indivisible from the empowerment torma. Its lid is ornamented by a wish-fulfilling tree and it is adorned by a horse head protecting against obstacles. 5
Thangtong Gyalpo wears a pristine white cotton robe and sits cross-legged upon a deer-skin seat. On his head is Amitāyus, brilliant red, resting in equipoise in nirṃanakāya attire, and holding a long-life vase. At his throat is Hayagrīva, brilliant red, brandishing a lotus-adorned staff in his right hand and holding a skull-cup filled with blood in his left hand. He stands with his right leg extended and his left leg drawn in and he is adorned with the eight charnel ground ornaments.
At his heart is the great master Padmasambhava, white with a tinge of red, holding a vajra and a skull-cup. He wears a cloak, a dharma robe, a lower garment, and a hat, and resides in crossed-legged vajra posture.
Surrounding Thangtong Gyalpo, like billowing clouds, are the gurus, yidams, vīras, ḍākinīs, protectors and guardians of the dharma, and all the vidyādharas with power over life.
Hrīḥ, hrīḥ, hrīḥ. Buddha Amitābha, Limitless Light, you care for us, each and every one,
Lord Amitāyus, Boundless Life, you grant us immortality,
All-powerful Hayagrīva, you eliminate every obstacle we face,
Padmasambhava, you are our refuge in this darkest of times,
Thangtong Gyalpo, you never fail to answer our prayers.
Now, I pray to you all: dispel everything unfavourable, every obstacle,
Fill me, transform me with your blessing—grant me the siddhi of immortal life!
oṃ amāraṇi jīvantaye guru-padma-krodha punye jñāna āyur siddhi hrīḥ hrīḥ hrīḥ ||
oṃ guru-aparimita-āyurjñāna saparivāra arghaṃ pādyaṃ puṣpe dhūpe āloke gandhe naivedye śabde pratīccha svāhā ||
Buddha of Infinite Life, foremost guide for beings in this world,
Your glory overcomes all untimely death,
You are a refuge for those of us who suffer without protection—
To you, long-life deity of the three kāyas, I offer homage and praise!
The enjoyment and splendour of a deathless, everlasting life,
Keen intellect, discernment, and insight,
And all the riches and glories of existence and quiescence,
May they all be spontaneously accomplished, we pray!
So that we may attain the precious level of deathless Amitāyus for the benefit of all sentient beings who are as infinite as space, I will bestow this long-life empowerment. Thus please pay attention and listen!
The one blessed in actuality by the master Padmasambhava himself is no other than the Lord of Siddhas, Thangtong Gyalpo. His famous long-life practice, the Glorious Bestower of Immortality, has both a long and a short lineage.
As for the former: The Lord of Siddhas, the Iron Bridge Builder, gave this practice to Tendzin Nyima Zangpo, 6 and thus the lineage continued until my own root teacher.
As for the latter: The short lineage comprises the long-life practice which relies on the lord of the family 7 of the noble and compassionate Amoghapaśa—that is the treasure revealed by the indisputable and timely treasure revealer, the great vidyādhara Chöjé Lingpa—and the long-life practice that Chöjé Lingpa received in a vision from the great Lord of Siddhas himself. These two practices together constitute the short lineage.
Since the moment has come to bestow the long-life empowerment for this practice which unites the oral, treasure and visionary teachings, repeat the following prayer after me:
Omniscient one, embodiment of primordial wisdom,
Who thoroughly purifies the wheel of existence––
Lord, with your kindness, grant me this precious treasure
Of which you have spoken today.
Before the field of refuge in the sky in front, repeat these verses of refuge and confession after me:
I take refuge in the Three Jewels,
Confess all my wrongdoing and non-virtuous actions,
Rejoice in the virtues of beings,
And maintain the mind of awakening to buddhahood.
I take refuge in the Buddha, the Dharma and the Supreme Assembly
Until I reach enlightenment.
To fully accomplish the benefit of myself and others
I will arouse the heart of the awakening.
Having aroused the supreme heart of awakening,
I will honour all beings as my guests
And uphold the supreme awakened conduct, pleasing to all.
For the benefit of beings, I will accomplish buddhahood.
For the main part, the empowerment, the master recites the visualisation from “In the centre of the maṇḍala in front of me, appears the Lord of Siddhas, Thangtong Gyalpo…” until “Surrounding Thangtong Gyalpo, like billowing clouds, are the gurus, yidams, vīras, ḍākinīs, protectors and guardians of the dharma, and all the vidyādharas with power over life.” Having thus invited the deities, in order to request their siddhis of immortality, recite the following prayer three times after me:
Hrīḥ, hrīḥ, hrīḥ! Buddha Amitābha, Limitless Light, you care for us, each and every one,
Lord Amitāyus, Boundless Life, you grant us immortality,
All-powerful Hayagrīva, you eliminate every obstacle we face,
Padmasambhava, you are our refuge in this darkest of times,
Thangtong Gyalpo, you never fail to answer our prayers.
Now, I pray to you all: dispel everything unfavourable, every obstacle,
Fill me, transform me with your blessing—grant me the siddhi of immortal life!
Pray like this and then image that infinite red lights in the shape of hooks emanate from the hearts the assembled deities, gathering our degenerated and dissipated life force, the essence of the four elements, the vitality and merit of beings, and all the compassion of the noble ones—like bees collecting nectar from flowers—into the long-life vase resting in the Mahāsiddha’s hands.
This causes the vase to overflow with the immortal nectar which enters the disciples through their brahma-aperture. It fills their whole bodies, purifies their fear of untimely death and grants them the siddhi of immortality.
Hrīḥ, hrīḥ, hrīḥ! Buddha Amitābha, Limitless Light, you care for us, each and every one… etc.
oṃ amāraṇi jīvantaye guru-padma-krodha punye jñāna āyur siddhi hrīḥ hrīḥ hrīḥ ||
Hrīḥ, hrīḥ, hrīḥ! Buddha Amitābha, Limitless Light, you care for us, each and every one…
The enjoyment and splendour of a deathless, everlasting life,
Keen intellect, discernment, and insight,
And all the riches and glories of existence and quiescence,
May they all be spontaneously accomplished, we pray.
May the master and disciples never be separated.
May the master’s life remain steadfast, stable and firm.
May food and drink always be in constant supply.
May everything be auspicious for the spread of happiness and Dharma!
oṃ guru-aparimita-āyurjñāna saparivāra arghaṃ pādyaṃ puṣpe dhūpe āloke gandhe naivedye śabde pratīccha svāhā ||
Buddha of Infinite Life, foremost guide for beings in this world,
Your glory overcomes all untimely death,
You are a refuge for those of us who suffer without protection—
To you, long-life deity of the three kāyas, I offer homage and praise.
oṃ vajrasattva samayam anupālaya vajrasattva-tvenopa-tiṣṭha dṛḍho me bhava sutoṣyo me bhava supoṣyo me bhava anurakto me bhava sarva-siddhiṃ me prayaccha sarva-karma śuca me cittaṃ śreyaṃ-kuru hūṃ ha ha ha ha hoḥ bhagavān sarva-tathāgata-vajra mā me muñca vajrī-bhava mahā-samaya-sattva āḥ ||
For anything lacking or incomplete, and
Whatever misdeeds I may have done or incited others to do
Out of ignorance
Please bear witness protectors and forgive them all!
I confess them with the hundred-syllable mantra!
Hūṃ, from the dharmakāya’s equality, devoid of conceptualizations…
My longevity is sealed within the unborn dharmadhātu.