Increasing Life and Vitality A Practice for Freeing Lives Refuge & Bodhicitta Four Immeasurables Reciting the Names of the Buddhas Recitation of the Mantras The Six-Syllable Mantra of Avalokiteśvara The Dhāraṇī of Buddha Akṣobhya The Dhāraṇī of the Eleven-faced Avalokiteśvara Visualization Prayers of Auspiciousness Verses from the Sūtra of Boundless Life and Wisdom 13 Dedication & Aspiration Prayers
In the Buddha, the Dharma and the Supreme Assembly
I take refuge until I attain enlightenment.
Through the merit of practising generosity and so on,
May I attain buddhahood for the benefit of all beings.
May all sentient beings enjoy happiness and the causes of happiness!
May they be free from suffering and the causes of suffering!
May they never be separated from the sacred happiness devoid of suffering!
And may they dwell in boundless equanimity that is free from attachment and aversion!
Homage to the Bhagavān, tathāgata, arhat, complete and perfect buddha, Protector Amithāba.
Homage to the Bhagavān, tathāgata, arhat, complete and perfect buddha, Protector Akṣobhya.
Homage to the Bhagavān, tathāgata, arhat, complete and perfect buddha, Ratnaśikhin.
Homage to the Bhagavān, tathāgata, arhat, complete and perfect buddha, Glorious King whose Name is Widely Renowned. 6
Homage to the Bhagavān, tathāgata, arhat, complete and perfect buddha, King who Sounds the Energy of Virtue. 7
Homage to the Bhagavān, tathāgata, arhat, complete and perfect buddha, The One with the Accomplishment of the Vow of the Radiance of Gold and Fine Stainless Jewels. 8
Homage to the Bhagavān, tathāgata, arhat, complete and perfect buddha, the One without Anguish and with Supreme Glory. 9
Homage to the Bhagavān, tathāgata, arhat, complete and perfect buddha, The Roaring One with an Ocean of Dharma-Renown. 10
Homage to the Bhagavān, tathāgata, arhat, complete and perfect buddha, King who is an Ocean of Dharma with the Best of Minds, Mastery, and Super-Knowledge. 11
Homage to the Bhagavān, tathāgata, arhat, complete and perfect buddha, Master of Medicine with the Radiance of Lapis-Lazuli. 12
Homage to the Bhagavān, tathāgata, arhat, complete and perfect buddha, Śākyamuni.
oṃ maṇi padme hūṃ hrīḥ ||
namo ratna-trayāya | namo bhagavate akṣobhyāya tathāgatāya arhate samyak saṃbuddhāya | tadyathā | oṃ kaṃkaṇi kaṃkaṇi rocani rocani troṭani troṭani trāsani trāsani pratihana pratihana sarva karma paramparāṇi me sarva sattvānāñca svāhā ||
namo ratna-trayāya | nama ārya-jñāna-sāgara-vairocana-vyūha-rājāya tathāgatāya arhate samyak saṃbuddhāya | namaḥ sarva-tathāgatebhyaḥ arhadbhyaḥ samyak-sambuddhebhyaḥ | nama āryāvalokiteśvarāya bodhisattvāya mahāsattvāya mahākāruṇikāya | tadyathā | oṃ dhara dhara | dhiri dhiri | dhuru dhuru | iṭṭe viṭṭe | cale cale | pracale pracale | kusume kusuma vare | ili mili citi jvalam apanaye svāhā ||
The Blessed Protector Amitāyus, the Buddha of Boundless Life, who is indivisible from my own teacher, appears directly in the sky before me, surrounded by an ocean-like gathering of the precious sources of refuge, such as the buddhas and bodhisattvas of the ten directions, the devas, and the ṛṣis whose speech is undeceiving. They chant verses of auspiciousness in sweet melodies, showering down a great rain of flowers which expands and extends the life, merit, wealth, wisdom, and qualities of all sentient beings, especially myself and the sponsors of the ritual. In this way, all those who have taken birth as animals are liberated from the fear of untimely death, and so live happily under the protection of the Three Jewels. Ultimately, when the seed of liberation ripens within their mind-streams, they will have the fortune of swiftly attaining awakening.
Like the pinnacle of a might king’s banner,
Crown ornament of the exalted deities,
Please grant us practitioners the supreme accomplishment!
Glorious gurus, let everything be auspicious!
Precious Buddha, the unsurpassable teacher,
Precious Dharma, the unsurpassable protection,
Precious Saṅgha, the unsurpassable guide—
Threefold source of refuge, rare and supreme, let everything be auspicious!
Buddha of Infinite Life, foremost guide for beings in this world,
Your glory overcomes all untimely death,
You are a refuge for those of us who suffer without protection—
Buddha Amitāyus, let everything be auspicious!
The buddhas who are the strength of generosity are perfectly sublime.
Lions among men, they have realized generosity’s strength.
When entering the citadel of the compassionate ones,
May our lifespan further increase, so that we can perfect generosity.
The buddhas who are the strength of discipline are perfectly sublime.
Lions among men, they have realized discipline’s strength.
When entering the citadel of the compassionate ones,
May our lifespan further increase, so that we can perfect discipline.
The buddhas who are the strength of patience are perfectly sublime.
Lions among men, they have realized patience’s strength.
When entering the citadel of the compassionate ones,
May our lifespan further increase, so that we can perfect patience.
The buddhas who are the strength of diligence are perfectly sublime.
Lions among men, they have realized diligence’s strength.
When entering the citadel of the compassionate ones,
May our lifespan further increase, so that we can perfect diligence.
The buddhas who are the strength of meditation are perfectly sublime.
Lions among men, they have realized meditation’s strength.
When entering the citadel of the compassionate ones,
May our lifespan further increase, so that we can perfect meditation.
The buddhas who are the strength of wisdom are perfectly sublime.
Lions among men, they have realized wisdom’s strength.
When entering the citadel of the compassionate ones,
May our lifespan further increase, so that we can perfect wisdom.
oṃ namo bhagavate aparimitāyur-jñāna-suviniścita-tejo-rājāya tathāgatāya arhate samyak saṃbuddhāya | tadyathā | oṃ puṇye puṇye mahā-puṇye 'parimita-puṇye 'parimita-puṇya-jñāna-saṃbhāropacite | oṃ sarva-saṃskāra-pariśuddhe dharmate gagana-samudgate svabhāva-viśuddhe mahā-naya-parivāre svāhā ||
May the roots of virtue of this practice, and likewise all the roots of virtue gathered in the past, present and future; cause the Buddhadharma to spread; cause virtue and happiness to flourish in our world; cause the lives of the sublime upholders of the Dharma to be lengthened and strengthened; cause their activities to thrive; cause the life, merit, wealth, and wisdom of all sentient beings, and especially myself and the sponsors of this ritual, to increase and be extended; and cause these animals to be liberated from the fear of saṃsāra and the lower realms; and may they swiftly attain the precious state of awakening.
Through this virtue, may all beings
Complete the accumulations of merit and wisdom,
And so attain the dharmakāya and rūpakāya
That come from merit and wisdom.
Through this merit, may all beings attain the omniscient state of enlightenment
And conquer the enemy, faults and delusion.
May they all be liberated from this ocean of saṃsāra
And from its pounding waves of birth, old age, sickness, and death!
In all our lives, wherever we are born,
May we never be apart from the Three Jewels.
May we always honor them
And receive their constant blessings.
Precious and sublime bodhicitta––
May it arise in those in whom it has not yet arisen,
And may it never decline where it has arisen,
But go on increasing, further and further!
The one true source of benefit and happiness––
The Dharma—may it long endure!
May the lives of the sublime upholders of the Dharma
Remain steady, like a royal banner!
Bring peace to the world, and usher in excellent years!
May grains and livestock evermore increase;
May all happiness and goodness be ever-present;
And may all that we wish for be accomplished!
In particular, in this very life,
May everything unfavorable be pacified!
May we always enjoy peace, happiness, long life,
Good health, prosperity, and success!
By the great power of this merit,
May the wishes and aims of the patrons, their friends and families,
All be fulfilled in this very life!
Let everything be auspicious, may they be free of obstacles,
And may they accomplish their aims in accordance with the Dharma!
Unsurpassable supreme teacher, supreme among those who are great––
May your blessings, King of the Dharma, Sun-like Conqueror,
Pacify harmful enemies, māras, and obstacles!
May all be ever-glorious and auspicious, throughout day and night!
Unsurpassable supreme Dharma, the truth of dharmatā––
May the blessings of the nectar of truth that is the sublime Dharma
Pacify our painful enemies––the afflictions, the five poisons!
May all be ever-glorious and auspicious, throughout day and night!
Saṅgha, blazing with the glory of precious noble qualities––
May the blessings of the truth of bodhisattvas’ beneficial deeds
Increase every virtue, free from negativity!
May all be ever-glorious and auspicious, throughout day and night!
The enjoyment and splendour of an everlasting deathless life,
Keen intellect, discernment, and insight,
And all the riches and glories of existence and quiescence––
May they all be spontaneously accomplished, we pray!
May merit ever increase, becoming like Meru, lofty king of mountains!
May great fame and renown pervade the whole of the sky!
May there be the constant auspiciousness of a sublime ocean of qualities––
Long life, good health, and spontaneous benefit for others!
May this very place itself enjoy happiness and peace, at dusk and at dawn!
May midday too be delightful and comfortable!
May the auspiciousness of the Three Jewels be ever-present,
Causing peace and happiness throughout day and night!
oṃ ye dharmā hetu prabhāvā hetuṃ teṣāṃ tathāgato hyavadat | teṣāṃ ca yo nirodha evaṃ vādī mahāśramaṇaḥ svāhā ||