Great Pangs of Devotion A Prayer to the Gurus and Three Roots in General and Especially the Two Thartsé Khenchen Vajradhara Brothers and Jamyang Khyentse Wangpo
Oṃ svasti!
The Blessed One Śākyamuni, his Close Sons, the great elders,
Scholars and adepts of India and Tibet and hosts of vidyādharas,
Let your blessings descend as cascading white lotuses,
And let auspiciousness reign throughout the three times.
Gurus of the mind-direct, sign and aural transmissions,
Peaceful and wrathful yidams, ḍākinīs of the three abodes,
Oath-bound dharma protectors, wealth deities, treasure-keepers and local spirits,
Turn your attention towards us, here and now.
Great sovereign of non-referential love and compassion,
Ever perfect great Vajradhara Hevajra,
And Cakrasaṃvara, master 1 of supreme joy—
To the vajra holder of the teachings, who is indivisible from them, I pray. 2
Regarding beings with great love like that for a child,
Powerful and pre-eminent yogin, lord of siddhas,
Whose splendour softens the harshness of ignorance and hatred—
Supremely excellent guru, to you I pray. 3
Magical manifestation of Mañjughoṣa’s wisdom,
Lord of knowledge and love, master of the teachings.
Who draws the chariot of wondrous sevenfold transmission, 4
Ösal Trulpe Dorje, to you I pray. 5
As I pray from the depths of my heart in this way,
May the supreme guides, father and son alike, look on me with compassion.
Whatever befalls this child of yours, happiness or sorrow, good or bad,
By placing my trust in you, the guru fathers and son,
Watch over me with your eyes of knowledge and love,
And never release me from your loving embrace,
But always protect me in this life, the next life, and the bardos, I pray.
Now that we have reached the final five-hundred year age,
Buddha’s teachings have almost set below the western peak.
The world teems with evildoers and barbarian hordes.
At this time, when everyone seems intent upon misery,
May the strength and compassion of the guru fathers and son
Reach their full force and the ills of this age be averted.
May all that obstructs the teachings be entirely eliminated,
And the dominion of the dharma-protecting king endure.
May those who curse men and women with obstructing forces
And who threaten the welfare of the teachings and beings
Be swiftly pacified, their minds filled with benevolence,
So that all may treat one another like parents.
May we effortlessly accomplish all our aspirations and deeds
That accord with the Dharma, and may we never be harmed
By non-human spirits and forces, but be entirely victorious.
May illness and evil influence be pacified, so that our lives may reach their full extent.
In the pleasant medicinal land of fourfold wellbeing and tenfold virtue, 6
In the monastery at the peak of the divine mountain of auspiciousness, 7
Is the dharma palace of the all-knowing guru, wherein
May gladness, 8 fortune and excellence increase.
So that this prayer may be accomplished just so,
Let buddhas, bodhisattvas, śrāvakas, pratyekabuddhas,
And especially the Lord of Oḍḍiyāna, embodiment of all Three Roots,
Grant their blessings, bolstered by the force of truth itself,
That it may be swiftly brought about, I pray.