The Profound Path of Guru Yoga: A Way to Freedom for the Fortunate A Supplement to the Reality Ḍākinīs' Secret Treasury (Chönyi Khandrö Sangdzö) Invoking the Guru’s Wisdom Mind Prayer Taking Refuge Generating Bodhicitta Maṇḍala Offering Visualization Accumulation of Merit Lineage Prayer Receiving Empowerment
Namo padmākaraye!
Namo. Glorious embodiment of all victorious ones and their heirs throughout the past, present and future,
Guru Vajradhara whose kindness is unrepayable,
With one-pointed and heartfelt faith, I pray to you.
Should you forsake us—your followers, students and disciples—
And turn away your compassion, who then could we turn to?
Left to our own devices, there is no chance to escape
The dungeon of intense suffering that is saṃsāra.
As I think of you, master of knowledge, love and power,
Look upon me from the unmanifest realm with eyes of compassion!
Keep me from straying onto lesser paths
And turn my mind toward the sacred Dharma, I pray!
To you I pray, O precious guru,
Inspire me with your blessings!
Care for me! Care for me! O guru, care for me!
Gracious guru, embodiment of all buddha families, care for me!
Inspire me to make the most of this free and well-favoured human form!
Gracious guru, embodiment of all buddha families, care for me!
Inspire me to maintain a heartfelt recollection of death!
Gracious guru, embodiment of all buddha families, care for me!
Inspire me to sever my attachment to saṃsāra!
Gracious guru, embodiment of all buddha families, care for me!
Inspire me with to adopt and avoid actions according to their effects!
Gracious guru, embodiment of all buddha families, care for me!
Inspire me to develop a mind of renunciation!
Inspire me to turn my back on saṃsāra!
Inspire me to keep to undefined locations and solitary retreats!
Inspire me to find stable, unchanging devotion!
Inspire me to remember the guru constantly!
Inspire me to practise the sacred Dharma sincerely without deception!
Inspire me so that all perceptions dawn as dharmakāya!
Inspire me with your blessings, here and now!
Swiftly inspire me with your blessings, I pray!
Namo. In the constant guardian and Three Jewels,
I and all beings take refuge with devotion.
Protect us until we attain the essence of enlightenment.
We have no other hope but you! Hold us with compassion!
Ho. For the sake of all sentient beings, my own past mothers,
I have set out on the path to unsurpassed awakening,
And now, to bring all beings to lasting happiness, I generate bodhicitta.
May I gain the glorious capacity to stir saṃsāra from its very depths!
The splendours and riches of apparent existence, my merits and possessions,
My own body with its aggregates and elements and all that I own,
Together with the secret dharmakāya array of awareness-emptiness—
All this I bring to mind and offer to the victorious ones.
May all beings perfect the accumulation of merit and wisdom,
And enjoy the purelands of the three kāyas!
Āḥ. In the spontaneously appearing realm of utter purity,
My own body is Vajrayoginī,
Appearing as Yeshe Tsogyal, supreme in every aspect.
She is brilliant white, with one face and two hands holding knife and skullcup,
Her three eyes gaze into space, and she is calm and youthful.
Her two feet are gracefully poised as she stands on a lotus and seats of sun and moon.
Some of her hair is tied up; the rest falls loosely behind.
Her jewelled crown ornaments and earrings sparkle and glisten.
She has all the adornments of a ḍākinī on her body.
And although she appears clearly, she is insubstantial.
Above my head, upon a lotus of non-attachment, sun and moon,
Amidst a shimmering expanse of five-coloured wisdom light,
Is my gracious root guru
In the nirmāṇakāya form of the Lake-born Guru of Oḍḍiyāna—
White with a tinge of red and glowing with youthful vigour.
He has one face and two hands, holding a vajra and skullcup containing a vase.
On his head he wears the lotus-hat that liberates upon sight, ornamented with coloured silk.
He is beautifully dressed in a gown and brocade cloak,
A lower garment and the three types of monastic robe,
And has a necklace and earrings studded with various jewels.
Cradled in his left arm is the secret consort concealed in the form of a khaṭvāṅga.
His two feet, in the posture of royal ease, wear tall felt boots.
He presides amidst an expanse of rainbow-coloured spheres of wisdom light,
And is surrounded by the vidyādhara gurus of the three transmissions.
Light from his body shines throughout all buddha-realms;
His speech leads beings of the six realms to bliss;
His mind cares wisely for fortunate disciples;
His qualities are like a treasury that fulfils every wish;
And his activity is extensive, taming beings throughout the three worlds.
His form is thus adorned with enlightened qualities in abundance.
Vajradhara of Oḍḍiyāna, pervasive lord of all buddha families,
With single-pointed faith, I pray to you.
Inspire us, your devoted children, with blessings.
We have no other hope but you. Hold us with compassion!
Turn our minds towards the Dharma! O guru, care for us!
Namo. To the guru, embodiment of all buddhas of past, present and future,
I and all other beings prostrate ourselves in devotion.
My body, possessions and all apparent existence, I offer.
All non-virtuous actions committed with body, speech and mind, I openly confess.
In all wholesome, virtuous actions ever amassed, I rejoice.
Let the Dharma Wheel turn, I pray, for the sake of those to be trained.
All noble beings, I beseech you to remain and not pass beyond suffering,
And all the virtues gathered throughout the three times I dedicate to all beings.
May everyone attain the state of unsurpassed awakening!
Kye! Kye! O precious guru, care for me!
Supreme teacher, embodiment of all the buddhas,
The sacred dharma of oceanic classes of tantra,
And the saṅgha with its eight qualities of knowledge and liberation—
You who embody these Three Jewels, care for me!
Essence of the guru unsurpassed,
Personification of all yidam deities,
And master of the three-kāya ḍākinīs—
You who embody these Three Roots, care for me!
The dharmakāya that is free from elaboration,
The source of all spontaneously present qualities,
And the paragon of all-pervasive compassion—
You who embody these three kāyas, care for me!
The essence that is the great, pervasive expanse,
The nature that is unceasing primordial wisdom,
And the compassion that is self-liberation's display —
Supreme glory of saṃsāra and nirvāṇa, care for me!
So that the three of outer, inner and other may be purified,
And the illusory body may mature into clear light,
The wisdom of the three kāyas may become manifest,
Existence and peace may be perfected as equality,
And, within the basic space of primordial purity,
I may seize liberation's stronghold within this very life,
Glorious guru, care for me!
oṃ āḥ hūṃ vajra guru padma siddhi hūṃ
Emaho. To Samantabhadra and consort, dharmakāya teachers
Of the realm of primordial purity, free from elaboration, I pray:
Bless me, so that my mind may be matured and liberated,
And I may unerringly realize the natural state.
To the sixth buddha, Vajradhara, together with his retinue
From the celestial palace of spontaneous presence in all its perfection, I pray:
Bless me, so that my mind may be matured and liberated,
And I may realize the view of the natural state.
To Garab Dorje and Śrī Siṃha
Of the mind-direct transmission's palace of twofold purity, I pray:
Bless me, so that my mind may be matured and liberated,
And I may unerringly realize the natural state.
To Padmākara, the king and subjects, together with hosts of siddhas
Of the oral lineage's vast expanse of great liberation upon hearing, I pray:
Bless me, so that my mind may be matured and liberated,
And I may unerringly realize the natural state.
Vajravārāhī, foremost of ḍākinīs of the three places,
Mandāravā, Yeshe Tsogyal,
Kālasiddhi and Shiwa Dorje Tso, I pray:
Bless me, so that my mind may be matured and liberated,
And I may unerringly realize the natural state.
To the naturally manifesting teacher, the sky-treasury of dharmatā,
The great vidyādhara Dudjom Dorje, I pray:
Bless me, so that my mind may be matured and liberated,
And I may unerringly realize the natural state.
To the sole constant refuge who reveals my own awareness,
Lord of the maṇḍala, Pema Ledreltsal, I pray:
Bless me, so that my mind may be matured and liberated,
And I may unerringly realize the natural state.
To the root guru of unrepayable kindness,
Seated on the chakra of great bliss at my crown, I pray:
Bless me, so that my mind may be matured and liberated,
And I may unerringly realize the natural state.
Bless me so that innate primordial wisdom may dawn!
Bless me so that I may realize the unborn dharmakāya!
Bless me so that I may capture the constant, unchanging domain!
From the white syllable Oṃ at the crown of the guru, who is the lord of all buddha families,
Empowerment and blessings of enlightened body emerge in the form of white light,
Which dissolves into my crown and purifies physical obscurations,
I receive the vase empowerment and mature into the nirmāṇakāya.
From the Āḥ at the guru's throat, empowerments and blessings of enlightened speech emerge
In the form of red light, which dissolves into my throat,
Purifies my speech and obscurations of wind-energy, and I mature into saṃbhogakāya.
From the Hūṃ at the guru's heart, empowerments and blessings of enlightened mind emerge
In the form of blue light, which dissolves into my mind,
Purifies my mind and obscurations of essences, and I mature into dharmakāya.
Once again, from the guru's heart emerge five-coloured rays of light,
Which dissolve into my five centres and purify emotional and cognitive obscurations.
I receive the supreme word empowerment
And actualize the state of svābhāvikakāya.
kāya vāk citta sarva siddhi phala hūṃ
The guru, lord of buddha families, melts into light and dissolves into me.
I too merge into non-referential basic space, the dharmakāya expanse,
Unaltered, and beyond the bounds of conceptualization.
Within the great bliss that is the purity and equality of saṃsāra and nirvāṇa: āḥ!