Sādhana of the Great Master Vairotsana
Emaho!
The Sacred Dharma, which protects us from the perils of saṃsāra,
Aware, liberated sources of courageous eloquence, and the perfect Buddha—
The personification of these Three Jewels and actual embodiment of the Three Roots
Is the guru, in whose body, speech and mind, I take refuge!
Sentient beings extend unto the very limits of space,
And bodhicitta is therefore without reference point—
Thus with bodhicitta of aspiration, action and the absolute,
I vow to liberate all living beings, who are without limit!
Āḥ. As-it-isness corresponds to the naturally arisen lamp of wisdom,
Universal manifestation, the great pure space of the far-reaching lamp;
And the expanse of the lamp of empty spheres is beyond gain and loss.
The direct realization of dharmatā is Vairocana of the Vast Glacial Ocean,
The increase of experience is Vairotsana’s face.
Awareness reaching full measure is the body of omniscient wisdom.
The exhaustion of phenomena beyond the mind is remaining in great equipoise.
His vajra posture signifies primordial, perfect wakening.
His three dharma robes signify all vehicles in their entirety,
And the elegant paṇḍita’s hat represents the natural state of Great Perfection.
To his right and left are the sublime pair, Maben Rinchen and Nyak Lotsāwa,
With inexhaustible intelligence that precisely discerns phenomena.
At the crown, throat and heart centres of the main figure and his attendants,
Are located the enlightened mind, speech and body of all the sugatas,
In the form of the three syllables that mark these great masters.
Light radiates out from the complete maṇḍala of the three seats
And invokes the assembly of wisdom deities
From the great bliss of the dharmadhātu nature: vajra-samājaḥ !
Hūṃ. From the heart of the Vast Glacial Ocean Vairocana,
Come now, Lotsawa Vairotsana, we pray!
From the sublime and sacred land of Aṭakāvatī,
Come now, Maben Rinchen Öchok, we pray!
From the locks of the wielder of wisdom’s sharp sword,
Come now, Nyak Yeshe Zhönnu, we pray!
Until your wisdom merges inseparably with my mind,
Remain here as I present to you vast, cloud-like offerings,
And offer up my own body and possessions without hesitation.
Bringing to mind the qualities of your three secrets, I offer praise!
And with total confidence, I pray to you from the depths of my heart!
Grant me the siddhi of blending my mind and your wisdom as one!
Oṃ āh guru vairocana ratna jñāna hūṃ svāhā