The Profound Bestowal of Blessings A Sādhana of Dorje Drolö from the Reality Ḍākinīs’ Secret Treasury (Chönyi Khandrö Sangdzö)
Namo. Supreme, glorious embodiment of the victorious ones of the three times,
Vidyādhara guru, in you I take refuge.
I generate the intention to lead all sentient beings,
My very own past mothers, to the authentic state.
Ah. In the emptiness of all phenomena throughout saṃsāra and nirvāṇa,
Its self-radiance arises as great compassion.
Awareness is the dark red Hūṃ, syllable of the central channel,
From which light shines out to make offerings to all the buddhas,
And collect their blessings, which dissolve into the Hūṃ.
The outer environment becomes the realm of Lotus Light;
And the inhabitants, the maṇḍala of vīras and ḍākinīs.
At the centre, is the spontaneously present celestial palace,
An expanse that is entirely perfect in scale and attribute.
There, upon seats of lotus, sun and moon,
I appear as Dorje Drolö,
Reddish-brown, radiant and with a single face.
His three eyes stare angrily into space.
He bites his lower lip with sharp white fangs.
His hair is golden and curls to the right.
He wears dried skulls, beautiful crown and crest adornments.
His right hand brandishes a nine-spoked vajra
To annihilate harm-doers, gyalpo and dön spirits.
His left hand points a kīla towards hindrances
And overpowers corrupting influences and damsi demons.
His body is covered with a gown and cloak,
Lower and upper garments and dharma robe.
A garland of fresh skulls hangs from his neck.
His two feet are in heruka pose as he stands amidst flames
And rides upon a pregnant tigress.
Meditate on how he appears while lacking reality.
From the three centres of the deity visualized in this way,
Light shines out and strikes the buddha realms.
It invokes the wisdom minds of all the buddhas,
And invites them to enter the form of Dorje Drolö,
So that samaya and wisdom beings merge inseparably.
In the hub of the vajra at his heart
Is a dark red Hūṃ, around which
The mantra garland revolves clockwise.
Light shines out, brings twofold benefit and returns.
The whole of apparent existence ripens as the deity mudrā,
All sounds are purified into the wheel of mantra,
And all thoughts are perfected as dharmakāya equality.
In this state that has never known delusion, recite:
oṃ āḥ hūṃ vajra guru drowolö sarva siddhi hūṃ
From the Hūṃ syllable at my heart,
Rays of light dispatch black iron scorpions,
Nine-headed, their bodies filled with eyes,
And in gatherings like thick clouds of mist.
With sudden force, they shoot out jets of flame and weaponry
That destroy harm-doers, gyalpo, gongpo and damsi,
Which they then swallow as food.
And whatever remains is burnt without trace.
oṃ āḥ hūṃ vajra guru rakṣa drowolö sarva duṣṭān māraya hūṃ phaṭ