Bestower of Supreme Blessings Guru Yoga of the Great Incomparable Lord Atiśa
Through the power of the truth and blessings of the Three Jewels and buddhas’ heirs,
Infinite pure realms complete with their own environments and inhabitants,
Are entirely filled with clouds like those emanated by Samantabhadra,
All replete with offering substances fit for gods and human beings.
Namo bhagavate vajra sara pramardhane…etc. (Recite this offering-cloud dhāraṇī three times.)
In the sky before me, upon a lion throne, lotus and moon,
Is my root guru in the form of glorious Atiśa,
Radiant white, smiling handsomely, and dressed in the three dharma robes.
He wears a paṇḍita’s hat, and holds both hands in the dharma-teaching mudrā.
To his right, resting upon a lotus, is a great stūpa
With a golden dome, and to his left upon a lotus,
One with a silver dome, together with a monk’s staff, alms-bowl and the like,
All elegantly arranged. He blazes with the splendour of the signs and marks,
And there is not the slightest imperfection in his appearance.
At his heart, within an orb of five-coloured light,
Is the dharmakāya, light blue and in the posture of equanimity.
At his heart is the bindu of bodhicitta,
Golden coloured, fine as a mustard seed, and radiant.
His three centres are marked with oṃ, āḥ and hūṃ,
From which light radiates out to invite a boundless assembly
Of wisdom beings, who dissolve into the guru’s crown,
And he thus abides as the essence and embodiment of all sources of refuge.
I offer primordial prostration to the pure body,
Empty of both homage and recipient.
I present clouds of immaculate offerings,
Untainted by emergence, persistence and decay.
I confess the precipitous failings of my three doors,
Which are beyond arising, remaining and ceasing.
I rejoice in the appearance of unnumbered guides,
Who are empty yet display a multitude of forms.
Turn in basic space, I implore you, the wheel
That is beyond aspiration and fixed character.
May you, the dharmakāya devoid of arising,
Never stray in any way whatsoever
From the nature that is spontaneous presence.
Through the virtue of this, may all in saṃsāra
Realize its nature to be like this, and
Be thereby drawn into a celestial palace such as this.
Before the Victorious One you were Bhadrapāla, 1
In the the Snowy Land, glorious Dīpaṃkara,
And in the Tuṣita heaven, Immaculate Space, 2
Like a wish-fulfilling jewel, you act on others’ behalf—
Glorious Atiśa, to you I pray.
Splendour of an ocean of wonder and excellence,
Inspire me to train in bodhicitta for the sake of all.
You were born into royalty and mastered all five sciences,
Tārā herself prophesied your travel to the Land of Snows,
And you came to cherish others above yourself and act for their sake—
Incomparable Atiśa, to you I pray.
Inspire me with your blessings here and now.
Instantly eliminate the sufferings of all, I pray.
Guide all beings along the path to awakening, I pray.
Transmit the source of all benefit and wellbeing, I pray.
Set us on the road to happiness this very instant, I pray.
Eliminate all the sufferings of existence, I pray.
Avert all obstacles to the Dharma, I pray.
Inspire me so that my deeds may be nothing but Dharma.
Pure from the beginning, the pristine nature of appearance and emptiness,
With elegant countenance and radiant, rainbow-like signs and marks,
Unchanging dharmakāya, clarity and emptiness, in which
Subtle energy and mind arise in the form of a bindu, praise to you.
Inspire me with your blessings so that I may practise the essence of the Seven Deities and Doctrines, the Dharma of Drops, 4
And through this, realize the kāya of union within this very life,
And thereby effortlessly and spontaneously
Accomplish all my own and others’ aims.
oṃ mahā guru dīpaṃkara atiśa svāhā
oṃ dharmakāya siddhi hūṃ
oṃ āḥ hūṃ (as many times as possible)
Then light emanates from the guru’s form
To collect blessings from the buddhas and their heirs,
And it then shines out once again
To cleanse the obscurations of the world and its inhabitants,
Transforming them into pure support and supported.
A stream of nectar flows from the guru’s form
To fill my own body and purify obscurations.
I receive the blessings of the three secrets.
In great delight, the guru
Melts into light and dissolves into the dharmakāya,
And the dharmakāya is absorbed into the bindu of genuine nature.
The bindu then enters the crown of my head,
Descends, and dissolves into my heart.
Thus, I remain for as long as possible
In this inseparability with my own mind.
The experience of great yoga,
Luminosity that emanates and is absorbed
Pervades all saṃsāra and nirvāṇa, environment and beings,
As the very identity of naturally arisen primordial wisdom.
Through the power of this, representing all virtues of the three times,
May I and all beings, who are as infinite in number as space is vast,
Always be cared for inseparably in each and every one of our lives
By the noble gurus who possess the threefold transmission,
And may we perfectly uphold the pure Kadampa lifestyle.
This transitory event is not in any way separate
From the dharmadhātu space of reality.
May there thus be the abundant auspiciousness
Of this perfect inseparability!
May there be the auspiciousness of pure lineage.
And may there be the auspiciousness of never wavering
From purity in the beginning, middle or end.