The Vision A Prayer to Ārya Avalokiteśvara
Homage to you, Lord of the World!
In the vastness of clear light, awareness and emptiness inseparable,
Lies the innate primordial nature, wisdom mind of the sugatagarbha.
To see you Avalokiteśvara, in your saṃbhogakāya form, is of the deepest meaning and moment;
I bow to you, the guide for all beings in the three realms:
Bless me to become a bodhisattva, just like you!
Your body is like the pure, bright autumn moon,
Your major and minor marks of perfection akin to the image of the hare that holds the moon in its embrace.
At your heart, the mudrā that joins saṃsāra and nirvāṇa,
In your hands, mālā and white lotus, in utter beauty there you stand:
Bless me to become a bodhisattva, just like you!
Your speech with its sixty wondrous qualities sounds as sweet as a tamboura,
As perfect in its undulating tones as the song of the kalaviṅka bird,
Proclaiming teachings that distil the truth of all the yānas.
I bow before you, master of the path of ripening and liberation:
Bless me to become a bodhisattva just like you!
Your mind is ever-present, changeless—all complexity is stilled in its expanse.
With the qualities of the two knowledges all perfected, the power of your compassion
Radiates extraordinary enlightened activities
To beings everywhere, above all in Tibet. To you I bow:
Bless me to become a bodhisattva, just like you!
Simply hearing your name ends all discord and decline;
Simply thinking of you frees us from the fear of lower realms.
One and only friend to all six classes of sentient beings,
Supreme and special deity, our protector, before you I bow:
Bless me to become a bodhisattva, just like you!
The flaws to be discarded you have driven far, far away;
The qualities to be cultivated you have demonstrated, every single one.
It’s miracles you perform, yet never is there anything incongruous to be seen.
Sublime Lord of the World, to you I bow!
Bless me to become a bodhisattva just like you!
E ma! The vast power of your aspirations is why
It’s you I turn to, as my refuge, my source of trust, and no-one else.
Now is the time: hook me with your compassion!
Bless me to become a bodhisattva just like you!
All of us living through this dark age of decay,
Are tortured with no break by karma’s unbearable misery.
And as I wander through saṃsāra, one life upon another,
It’s to you I pray, Avalokiteśvara: look on me with your compassion,
And bless me to become a bodhisattva, just like you!
Driven by addiction to mindless distractions,
I have strayed so far from your sight, your grace, your protection.
And now when I face the surging waves in this ocean of suffering,
It’s to you I pray Avalokiteśvara: look on me with your compassion,
Bless me to become a bodhisattva just like you!
When I’m bewildered about how to let saṃsāra go and seek nirvāṇa,
Endlessly clinging to the face of my flighty beloved,
And I repeat the same reckless behaviour day and night,
It’s to you I pray Avalokiteśvara: look on me with your compassion,
Bless me to become a bodhisattva just like you!
When the glamour of youth is trampled underfoot by the army of months and years,
The tree of vitality is splintered by the axe of the Lord of Death,
And the lifeline of liberation withers away,
It’s to you I pray, Avalokiteśvara: look on me with your compassion,
Bless me to become a bodhisattva, just like you!
As I stumble, unsteady, on shaky steps among the six pāramitās,
My listening, contemplating and meditation still immature,
And I am obsessed with tasks just futile and meaningless,
Then it’s to you I pray, Avalokiteśvara: look on me with your compassion,
Bless me to become a bodhisattva, just like you!
When the face of five wisdoms is covered by five poisons,
The eyes to see innate primordial wisdom go blind,
And I’m left shrouded in the dark of karma and habits,
Then it’s to you I pray, Avalokiteśvara: look on me with your compassion,
Bless me to become a bodhisattva, just like you!
Ordinary people like me, foolish and naive,
Are tormented by the pervasive suffering of conditioning,
And when I’m submerged in this ocean—the results of my evil karma,
I pray to you, Avalokiteśvara: look on me with your compassion,
Bless me to become a bodhisattva just like you!
Once I have trained my mind in bodhicitta, both aspiration and action,
And perfected the qualities of the ten stages and five paths,
Let me attain the enlightened state with its ten powers,
And serve as a guide, a leader, for all living beings.
Then let any who have heard my teachings,
Or made a connection with me through seeing, hearing, remembering or speaking,
Be purified of their karma, even acts of immediate retribution.
May the doors to the lower realms be closed for them, and may they be reborn in the exquisite Potala paradise!