The Concentrated Essence A Concise Practice of Healing and Purifying (Sojong) the Three Sets of Vows 1. Prostration 2. Offering 3. Confession 4. Rejoicing 5. Imploring the Buddhas to Turn the Wheel of Dharma 6. Requesting the Buddhas Not to Enter Nirvāṇa 7. Dedication
Namo gurave!
Like a star, hallucination, candle,
Magical illusion, dewdrop, bubble,
Dream, lightning or a cloud—
Know all compounded phenomena to be like this.
All dharmas originate from causes.
The Tathāgata has taught these causes,
And also that which puts a stop to these causes—
This too has been taught by the Great Śramaṇa.
Commit not a single unwholesome action,
Cultivate a wealth of virtue,
Tame completely this mind of ours—
This is the teaching of the buddhas.
When the vows of the body are well kept,
The vows of speech are also well kept.
When the vows of mind are well kept,
All positive vows are kept as well.
Virtuous practitioners who guard all
Are sure to be freed from every suffering.
oṃ amoghaśīla saṃvara saṃvara vara vara mahā-śuddha-sattva-padma-vibhūṣita-puja-dhara-dhara-samanta-avalokite hūṃ phaṭ svāhā
May my discipline be free from any flaw,
May my discipline be completely pure,
With discipline devoid of complacent pride,
May I complete the pāramitā of discipline.
Following in all the buddhas’ footsteps,
May I bring Good actions to full perfection;
May my conduct and discipline be flawless and pure,
May it never fail me or be at fault.
To all the buddhas, the lions of the human race,
In all directions of the universe, through past and present and future:
To every single one of you, I bow in homage;
Devotion fills my body, speech and mind.
Through the power of this prayer, aspiring to Good Action,
All the victorious ones appear, vivid here before my mind
And I multiply my body as many times as atoms in the universe,
Each one bowing in prostration to all the buddhas.
In every atom preside as many buddhas as there are atoms,
And around them, all their bodhisattva heirs:
And so I imagine them filling
Completely the entire space of reality.
Saluting them with an endless ocean of praise,
With the sounds of an ocean of different melodies
I sing of the buddhas’ noble qualities,
And praise all those who have gone to perfect bliss.
To every buddha, I make offerings:
Of the loveliest flowers, of beautiful garlands,
Of music and perfumed ointments, the best of parasols,
The brightest lamps and finest incense.
To every buddha, I make offerings:
Exquisite garments and the most fragrant scents,
Powdered incense, heaped as high as Mount Meru,
Arranged in perfect symmetry.
Then the vast and unsurpassable offerings—
Inspired by my devotion to all the buddhas, and
Moved by the power of my faith in Good Actions—
I prostrate and offer to all you victorious ones.
Whatever negative acts I have committed,
While driven by desire, hatred and ignorance,
With my body, my speech and also with my mind,
Before you, I confess and purify each and every one.
With a heart full of delight, I rejoice at all the merits
Of buddhas and bodhisattvas,
Pratyekabuddhas, those in training and the arhats beyond training,
And every living being, throughout the entire universe.
You who are like beacons of light shining through the worlds,
Who passed through the stages of enlightenment, to attain buddhahood, freedom from all attachment,
I exhort you: all of you protectors,
Turn the unsurpassable wheel of Dharma.
Joining my palms together, I pray
To you who intend to pass into nirvāṇa,
Remain, for aeons as many as the atoms in this world,
And bring well-being and happiness to all living beings.
What little virtue I have gathered through my homage,
Through offering, confession, and rejoicing,
Through exhortation and prayer—all of it
I dedicate to the enlightenment of all beings!
All you buddhas who dwell in the ten directions
All you great bodhisattvas on the ten levels,
All you great teachers, the vajra-holders, turn your mind towards me, I pray!
I, the one named insert name here ,
Until I realize the essence of enlightenment,
Take refuge in the buddhas,
And likewise in the Dharma,
And the assembly of bodhisattvas.
Just as the sugatas of former times
Aroused the bodhicitta
And established themselves by stages
In the training of a bodhisattva,
Just so, for the benefit of beings
I will arouse bodhicitta
And likewise I will train
Progressively in those disciplines. 1
Today, my birth has been fruitful
I have well obtained a human existence.
Today I am born into the family of the buddhas:
I have become a son or daughter of the buddhas. 2
From now on, at all costs, I will perform
The actions befitting to my family.
I will not be a stain
On this faultless noble family. 3
Just like a blind person
Happening upon a priceless jewel in a heap of rubbish,
So, through some fortunate coincidence,
The bodhicitta has been born in me. 4
Today, in the presence of all the protectors,
I invite all beings to the state of sugata,
And, meanwhile, to happiness and bliss:
Gods, asuras and others—rejoice! 5
O sublime and precious bodhicitta,
May it arise in those in whom it has not arisen;
May it never decline where it has arisen,
But go on increasing further and further!
May they not be separated from bodhicitta,
But be always inclined to enlightened action:
May they be cared for by the buddhas, and
May they abandon harmful action.
May the bodhisattvas’ good wishes
For benefitting beings be fulfilled.
Whatever the protectors have intended for them:
May sentient beings receive it.
May all sentient beings be happy.
May all the lower realms be forever empty.
May the aspirations of all the bodhisattvas
Of the various bhūmis be fulfilled!
namas-traiyadhvikānām tathāgatānāṃ sarvatra-apratihata-avāpti-dharmatā-balinām asamasama samantato 'nantana-avāpti-śāsani hara hara smara smaraṇa vigata-rāga-buddha-dharmate sara sara samabalā hasa hasa traya traya bhagavan mahā varalakṣaṇi jvala jvala sāgare svāhā
The environment is the blazing palace of great bliss, and in its centre
Is the lord who encompasses all buddha families, the guru Vajrasattva—
Brilliant white, smiling, and holding vajra and bell.
He has all the saṃbhogakāya accoutrements and is in union with the consort Vajragarvā.
Seated cross-legged upon a lotus and moon disc, he has an illusory rainbow form
And considers me with joy from within his pavilion of light.
From the four centres in the body of Guru Vajrasattva
Rays of light emerge to dissolve into my four centres.
Through this, I receive the blessings of enlightened body, speech and mind
And vajra wisdom and obtain the four empowerments.
Oṃ. Sugata, whatever you are like,
May I become exactly the same,
And carry out wondrous, inconceivable actions
In order to bring benefit to beings.
The vows of a supreme bodhisattva
And the mudrās of body, speech and mind,
Even at the cost of my own life, I shall not forsake.
Vajra king, inspire me with your blessings.
In this world during the final phase of this degenerate age,
May I accomplish whatever is difficult for the buddhas,
And may I do whatever the bodhisattvas find demanding.
In this maṇḍala of the vajra yoga
May all our aspirations be fulfilled.
Guru Vajrasattva melts into light and dissolves into me.
And I look into the ultimate face of Vajrasattva: awareness and emptiness.
Gurus and hosts of yidam deities, turn your attention towards us!