Vajra Net The Ancillary Preliminary and Concluding Practices for the Three Drops, the Guru Yogas for Venerable Marpa, Mila, and Gampopa
Homage to the Guru!
In the ocean of Three Jewels and mahāsiddhas
I take refuge until awakening.
So that all beings may attain buddhahood,
I arouse supreme bodhi-heart.
In this buddha realm of pure self-perception,
Its wondrous design surpassing thought,
Is a celestial palace made of the five wisdom lights
And a mass of offering-clouds of sensory delights.
Upon a lotus, sun, and corpse seat of non-conceptuality
I stand in the form of Vajrayoginī,
Free of attachment – the colour of a lotus ruby,
Means and insight indivisible – holding a knife and skull,
Replete with the sambhogakāya ornaments, ablaze with blissful warmth.
In the space before me, amid an expanse of five-coloured light,
Are thrones held up by lions, elephants, horses,
Garuḍas, and eagles, upon which rest
Sun and moon discs and lotuses of jewels.
They are all vividly present before me,
Appearing yet without true existence.
Their three places are marked with the syllables oṃ āḥ hūṃ ,
Which radiate lights that invite from the natural pure realm
Wisdom beings resembling the visualisation who become inseparable from them.
Oṃ. The All-pervasive Sovereign, the nature of all things,
Is like the sky, non-abiding, beyond coming and going.
Like a reflection of the moon in water, wherever there is intention there you appear.
So Glorious Guru, make yourself manifest here before me!
oṃ vajra samājaḥ
Upon this supreme lion-throne of jewels, heavenly silks,
Sun disc, moon disc, and lotus flower,
So that my own and all others’ goals may be fulfilled,
Glorious Guru, please take a seat!
I pay homage with my body through full prostrations,
Pay homage with my speech through inspired praise,
Pay homage with my mind through wholehearted devotion—
Glorious Guru, I pay homage to you!
May the obscurations of my own three gates
And those of all other beings be purified!
Sovereign of the three kāyas and five kāyas—
To the Guru’s wisdom form I render homage and praise!
Treasury of the profound and vast Dharma of the nine yānas—
To the Guru’s wisdom speech I render homage and praise!
Omniscience endowed with the five wisdoms—
To the Guru’s wisdom heart I render homage and praise!
Replete with the sixty-four virtues of separation and ripening—
To the Guru’s wisdom qualities I render homage and praise!
Dredging the depths of saṃsāra for all beings throughout space—
To the Guru’s wisdom deeds I render homage and praise!
The outer maṇḍala of the three-thousandfold realm,
The inner maṇḍala of the aggregates and elements,
And the secret maṇḍala of the innate disposition—
I offer these up to the Guru! I offer them all!
Please accept them, and bestow your blessings on me.
May all beings complete the two great accumulations!
The outer offering of appearances and mind combined,
The inner offering of all notions of dirty and clean purified,
The secret offering of union, non-duality—
I present these offerings to the venerable gurus.
Please accept them, and bestow your blessings on myself and all beings.
May the scales of the two accumulations be filled!
The auspicious substances and signs, the seven royal possessions,
A revel of the sixteen goddesses in song and dance,
The entire display of saṃsāra and nirvāṇa in all its guises—
All of this I offer to the gathering of glorious gurus!
Please accept it, and bestow your blessings on everything.
May the strength of experience and realisation expand!
Throughout time without beginning until now,
Under the sway of ignorance we have engaged
In the ten non-virtues, the five inexpiable acts,
We have performed naturally harmful acts,
We have transgressed, damaged, violated, and broken the three vows
And so accumulated proscribed negativities—
All this I confess before the venerable gurus!
May our entire mass of obscurations be cleansed
So we may traverse the stages and paths without obstacles!
In all the tainted virtue
Accrued by ordinary beings I rejoice.
In all the untainted virtue
Accrued by the nobles ones I rejoice.
In the sublime life examples
Of the glorious gurus I rejoice.
Through the virtue thus gathered though not performed,
May the two accumulations be effortlessly fulfilled
And may the stages and paths be swiftly perfected!
For all sentient beings in need of influence,
Please, in accord with their individual faculties,
Turn the wheel of profound and vast Dharma
Unceasingly, I beseech you!
May the web of delusion be cut through,
So the light of wisdom may shine forth!
Eternal essence, dharmakāya;
Eternal adornment, sambhogakāya;
Eternal manifestation, nirmāṇakāya—
All you gurus who display the three kāyas,
I beseech you! Do not display parinirvāṇa
But lasting, stable, and immutable as the swastika,
Remain forever, throughout all of time,
And so swiftly establish all beings, your disciples,
At the state of buddhahood!
Whatever virtue I and all others
Have gathered throughout past, present, and future,
Be it tainted, untainted, or through unity,
I dedicate so all beings may attain
The state of the awakened gurus!
Wherever we are born in our future lives,
May we never be apart from the gurus.
May we partake of the nectar of the profound instructions,
So our realisation becomes equal to the Sovereign Guru’s
And we can thus fulfil all their wisdom activities!
From the seed-syllables in the four places of the Sovereign Guru,
Light streams out and gathers the blessings of all buddhas and bodhisattvas.
This light then dissolves into me, and I attain the empowerments and siddhis,
Am freed of all obscurations, and actualise the kāyas and wisdoms.
oṃ āḥ hūṃ svāhā
To Lord Marpa, Chökyi Lodrö, I pray!
To Lord Mila, Shepa Dorjé, I pray!
To Lord Gampopa, Da’ö Shönnu, I pray!
To the precious guru, I pray:
Inspire me to abandon this attitude of self-clinging.
Inspire me to develop renunciation in my being.
Inspire me to put an end to non-dharmic thoughts.
Inspire me to realize how my own mind is unborn.
Inspire me to pacify delusion in its own place.
Inspire me so that appearance and existence dawn as dharmakāya.
My body is in the prime of beauty and youth, captivating to behold.
It is glowing and smooth, radiating splendor and majesty.
Before me is a self-arisen hearth of three skulls
Upon which I place my own skull, suddenly detached from my neck.
Inside it I arrange my own body, instantly melted down.
All its impurities flow away in the form of froth,
While vapours rise from it, drawing in the essence of saṃsāra and nirvāṇa
That pour down as the three syllables of mantra and dissolve into it.
Thus it becomes the white and sweet substances, the five meats and five amṛtas,
Divine offerings, supports for accomplishment, fulfilment substances, a mass of delights,
All so plentiful that they fill the entire three-thousandfold realm.
An assembly of offering goddesses born from consciousness,
White, yellow, red, green, dark blue, and multicoloured,
As numerous as dust particles in sunbeams flock around
And present the offerings to each of the guests, the recipients.
Kagyü forefathers, ocean of mahāsiddhas,
Infinite deities of the thirty-two maṇḍalas,
I present this offering cloud, a mass of undefiled amṛta .
Bestow all empowerments, blessings, and siddhis!
Pacify all adversities and obstacles into basic space!
Help us reach awakening in this very life!
Gurus embodying all the Three Jewels, our objects of refuge,
Yidam deities of the four and six classes of tantra,
Ḍākinīs of the three sacred locales, Dharma protectors,
Major and minor gods and demons of the apparent world,
Sentient beings of the six types, bardo beings with mental bodies,
Those to whom I owe karmic debts from previous lives—
They all dawn as the Guru’s display.
Now saṃsāra and nirvāṇa are of equal taste, so all you guests,
Partake of whatever you wish, whatever appeals to you,
Such that your heart-wishes may be instantaneously fulfilled!
Whatever transgressions of the Lord Guru’s intent,
Whatever misdeeds, downfalls, and failings I’ve committed,
Through this may the cause, the two accumulations, be perfected, and the two obscurations be purified.
May the great strength of experience and realisation be swiftly perfected.
May we traverse the five paths and attain the ten stages.
May we never fall prey to obstructions, deviations, or sidetracks.
May we attain the fruition that fulfils the two goals, the naturally-present two kāyas!
May we actualise full awakening within this very life!
The gathering of emanations who are the Lord Guru’s activity –
Protectors Mahākāla, Düsolma,
Self-Arisen Reti Riding a Jackal,
Realm-protector deities, the Tseringma Sisters,
Mother ḍākinīs, ging s, langka s, and emissaries—
All you recipients of the residuals, you who guard the boundaries,
I present you with these offering clouds of sense delights, this residual gathering,
This array of substances – oceans of untainted amṛta ,
Mountains of flesh, lakes of blood, great banks of bones.
Enjoy it all and enact the four activities!
Forestall all outer and inner obstacles and adversities!
Help us increase our inner experience and realisation!
The entire host of gurus and deities present before me
Melts into light and dissolves into me.
Their wisdom heart and my own mind merge, and I rest within this state
With nothing to do and no doer, free of all focus,
Unmodified natural presence—the great seal.
All the virtue gathered throughout the three times
By myself and all other beings,
Tainted, untainted, or their unity,
I dedicate so that all beings
May attain the state of the guru-buddhas!
Wherever we are born in our future lives,
May we never be apart from the gurus.
May we partake of the nectar of the profound instructions,
So our realisation becomes equal to the Sovereign Guru’s
And we can thus fulfil all their wisdom activities!
May the teachings of the Karma Kamtsang Practice Lineage
Spread throughout the entire world,
And may all those who enter into these teachings
Attain accomplishment. Thus may auspicious abound!