A Constant Stream of Blessings A Prayer to the Eight Supreme Vidyādharas of India
In the sky-like space of dharmakāya, emptiness endowed with all kinds of skilful means supreme,
Rises the full moon of the saṃbhogakāya maṇḍala, complete with its seven attributes,
Manifesting for all those to be tamed in nirmāṇakāya forms that defy the imagination:
Masters of the web of magical illusion, to you I pray!
In the east, in the charnel ground of Chilly Grove,
Opening the door to the secret treasury of Yangdak, the wisdom mind,
You attained siddhis, and mastery over the wish-fulfilling treasure:
Master Hūṃkāra, to you I pray!
In the south, in the charnel ground of Perfect in Form,
By sowing the seed of Mañjuśrī, the wisdom body,
You reaped the full harvest of the four vajras:
Mañjuśrīmitra, at your feet I pray!
In the west, in the charnel ground of Lotus Heap,
Crossing Hayagrīva’s ocean of wisdom speech,
You discovered the riches of the knowledge of the multiplicity of things and of their true nature:
Nāgārjuna Garbha, at your feet I pray!
In the north, in the charnel ground of the Mound of Lanka,
Striking with the vajra weapon of Kīlaya—enlightened activity,
You obtained the power to liberate all three worlds of existence into space:
Prabhāhasti, at your feet I pray!
In the south-east, in the charnel ground of the Spontaneously Accomplished Mound,
Through everlasting enjoyment as lover of the mamos ‘Calling and Dispatching’,
You maximized your experience of uncontaminated great bliss:
Dhanasaṃskṛta, at your feet I pray!
In the south-west, in the charnel ground of the Display of Great Secrets,
By employing the vital force of the nectar of enlightened qualities,
You arose, without transference, in the supreme rainbow body:
Vimalamitra, at your feet I pray!
In the north-west, in the charnel ground of Pervasive Great Joy,
By crushing the forces of worldly offering and praise,
You conquered the armies of the unruly legions of māras:
Rombuguhya, at your feet I pray!
In the north-east, in the charnel ground of Mound of the Worlds,
By igniting a fireball of maledictory wrathful mantras,
You gained the power to incinerate aggressors and their forests:
Śāntigarbha, at your feet I pray!
In all the pure realms of the buddhas, of the three kāyas,
By directly attaining enlightenment in the eight sections of practice,
You attained the supreme state of realization of the four vidyādharas:
Orgyen Tötreng Tsal, to you I pray!
Through this prayer of mine,
May I obtain all the blessings, auspiciousness, and qualities of the wisdom, compassion and power of all the buddhas,
And maturing into the vajra body,
Bring auspiciousness and good for every single living being!