The Prayer of The Words of Truth
Namo ratnatrayāya! 1
Masters of the glory of an ocean of boundless qualities,
Who look upon all helpless beings as if they were an only child,
Sugatas of the past, present and future, bodhisattvas and those in training,
Hear these truthful lamentations of mine, I pray!
May the complete teaching of buddha dispel the miseries of existence and quiescence,
Spread as the glory of benefit and happiness for the whole world!
And may the learned and accomplished holders of these teachings
Cause the activity of the ten dharmic actions to increase!
Totally overcome by fierce and inexhaustible negative karma,
Beings are worn out and tormented by relentless suffering,
May all the fears of unbearable illness, warfare and famine,
Be pacified, and relieved by an ocean of bliss!
And especially for the practitioners in the Land of Snows,
Mercilessly conquered by uncivilized forces of evil,
May the flowing stream of their blood and tears
Be swiftly halted by the powerful might of compassion!
Those who are driven mad by the demon of negative emotions,
And pitifully bring ruin upon themselves and others through their reckless actions,
May such impudent beings gain the vision of what to adopt and abandon,
And meet with kind and loving friends!
May the object of my most long-standing and heartfelt wish:
The marvel of total independence and freedom for Tibet,
Be spontaneously accomplished! And may we be swiftly granted
The good fortune to celebrate the unity of Dharma and affairs of state!
Giving away their bodies held so dear, their lives and their possessions,
For the sake of the teachings and those who maintain them, for our culture and unique traditions,
May those accomplished beings who undergo so many hardships,
Be protected by the compassionate lord of the Potala!
In short, may all the vast prayers of aspiration
The lord Avalokiteśvara made for the land of Tibet
In the presence of the buddhas and their bodhisattva heirs,
Swiftly come to their positive fruition here and now!
Through the interdependence of the profound intrinsic nature of appearance and emptiness,
Through the power of the compassionate Three Jewels, by the force of these words of truth,
And through the strength of the infallible truth of cause and effect,
May this, our prayer of truth, be swiftly accomplished without any hindrance!