Words to Delight the Lake-Born One A Prayer for the Spread of the Vajrayāna Teachings of the Ancient Translations
Namo guru padmākarāya!
The actual embodiment of all the victorious ones of the three times,
Whose qualities of knowledge, love and power are as vast as space,
Teacher to all who soar and roam about, Ācārya Padmasambhava—
Grant auspiciousness, so your tradition may flourish and spread.
You are the equal of the buddhas in your realized intent,
A master from whom oceanic maṇḍalas of yidam deities emanate and into whom they are reabsorbed.
A brother to all ḍākinīs, sovereign of all vīras,
Vajra Skull-Garland, a great treasury of blessings,
Comparable to the sun and moon, a wish-fulfilling jewel or wish-granting tree,
A source of supreme and ordinary attainments, a treasure of benefit and happiness,
An adornment for the crowns of all the beings of the three worlds—
May your tradition shine as resplendently as the sun.
In this benighted country of the red-faced people, Tibet,
You bound gods and spirits under oath and introduced the chariot of the teachings.
Abbot, teacher and dharma-king, Vairotsana, Kawa Paltsek and Chokro Lüi Gyaltsen,
And hosts of learned and accomplished vidyādharas who had gained attainments,
All with enlightened resolve, painstakingly sought, translated and taught,
Establishing the validity, through study and through practice,
Of the precious teachings of the Vinaya, Sūtra, Abhidharma,
And the outer and inner collections of Secret Mantra—may they flourish and spread.
Even across many aeons, it is rare to hear the names of
The great tantras of the inner yogic methods, in particular—
The Essence of Illusory Display, the Sūtra of Gathering, and Area of the Mind. 1
Seeing the extremely fragile state of the transmission lineages
Of their explanation, empowerment and pith instructions,
Intensify the power of your wisdom, compassion and skill,
And cause vidyādharas and sublime nirmāṇakāya emanations
To appear, just like bolts of lightning descending from the sky.
With the wisdom of the warrior Mañjuśrī in our hearts,
The tender loving gaze of Avalokiteśvara,
And the strength and capacity of the mighty Keeper of Secrets, 2
May we rekindle the dying embers of the Ancient Translation teachings.
May the ranks of the ordained saṅgha who possess renunciation and discipline
And of the secret mantra practitioners who maintain the samayas of the two stages
Both expand like the great lake of Manasarovar.
The outer sciences of refutation and maintenance,
The great textual tradition of the profound inner science,
And scripture and reasoning based on threefold analysis
From the ten great pillars who supported the exegetical tradition in this northern land—
May the drum of Dharma resound and the four river-like transmissions flourish.
May the jewel-like material and Dharma treasures
Of the great vidyādharas with miraculous powers,
Who appeared in the past and who will come in future,
Upholding the lineage of extremely profound, uncommon treasures,
The ḍākinīs’ heart-blood, be widely disseminated,
Dispelling all the ills that plague the teachings and beings.
May those who attain supreme and common siddhis fill the earth,
And may the teachings of the Mahāguru spread far and wide.
By transcending the limited tenets of the eight speculative vehicles,
As mental knots are released, may the realization of three-kāya awareness
Reach full strength and all dharmas be freed in their own place.
Then, through the direct approach of the four lamps of luminosity,
In the vast dharmakāya expanse of primordially pure great emptiness,
May the spontaneously perfect clusters of kāyas and wisdoms appear clearly,
And may we reach the culmination of the path of the four visions.
Through gaining the vajrakāya that is the maturation of awareness,
May our impact extend throughout every valley in the Land of Snows,
And with the roaring laughter of vajra fearlessness,
May we triumph over all the savage beasts who are our adversaries.
May the teachings of the Lake-born Buddha flourish and spread.
May the great waves of the four types of activity
Emerge out of the vast, oceanic treasury of pith instructions,
Causing the teachings of the Omniscient Sage to flourish and spread,
And may the happiness of beings throughout the whole of space forever increase.
Encouraged by the glories of the Ancient Translations school,
May those who uphold the teaching and practice of the Kadam, Sakya,
Marpa and Shangpa Kagyü, Gendenpa, Pacifying, Chöd, Jonang, Zhalu
And other traditions help their own systems to flourish and spread.
In short, through the enlightened resolve of the kings, ministers,
Bodhisattvas and emanated lotsāwas and paṇḍitas of the past,
May all that we be accomplished in accordance with our wishes,
And may the teachings of the Oḍḍiyāna Guru flourish and spread.
Moreover, may all be auspicious for the nonsectarian teachings to spread,
The lives of the sublime beings who uphold the teachings to remain secure,
The saṅgha to live in harmony, the merit and longevity of patrons to increase,
All the various ills of this age without exception to be pacified,
The fresh sun heralding a golden dawn to rise within the sky,
Lotus gardens of wonder to flourish everywhere upon the earth,
The atmosphere to be enriched by splendours of virtuous excellence,
And the teachings never to decline but to flourish and spread far and wide.