Highway of the Great Yoga A Daily Practice for the Peaceful and Wrathful Deities of the Self-Liberated Wisdom Mind 1
Namo! In the essence of the Three Supreme Ones and Three Roots,
The victorious peaceful and wrathful deities,
In devotion I take refuge with body, speech and mind.
I arouse the supreme mind of bodhicitta, in aspiration and action.
Āḥ. The nature of all phenomena is clear light,
Primordially empty, free of concepts and alpha pure.
Its radiance, your spontaneously present body, is Vajrasattva.
Adorned with saṃbhogakāya ornaments,
He holds vajra and bell, means and insight indivisible.
He sits in cross-legged posture
Upon a lion throne, a lotus, and sun and moon disk seats.
At his heart are the forty-two peaceful deities,
With bodies of light
And all their major and minor marks clear and distinct.
His head is adorned with the fifty herukas.
Their garments and appearances are perfect.
At his throat are hosts of vidyādharas, heroic ones
And ḍākinīs in illusory forms.
At his navel are the five classes of ḍākinīs
Surrounded by hosts of ḍākinīs of the three abodes.
All the pores of his body are filled
With oceans of vidyādharas and ḍākinīs,
Themselves surrounded by ḍākinīs, dharma protectors,
And an ocean of oath-bound treasure guardians
The deity, unborn and thoroughly established, is clearly visualized.
At his forehead is a white oṃ ,
At his throat a red āḥ and at his heart a hūṃ .
Consider that these are the essence of the three secrets of all the buddhas.
Empty appearances are the enlightened body,
Empty sounds the enlightened speech, and thoughts the enlightened mind.
When everything becomes the nature of the peaceful and wrathful deities
Saṃsāra and nirvāṇa transform into the expanse of the three kāyas.
oṃ āḥ hūṃ bodhicitta-mahāsukha rulu rulu hūṃ bhyo hūṃ
oṃ vajra puṣpe dhūpe āloke gandhe naivedye śabda pūja hoḥ
Inexpressible wisdom, which is the immovable dharmakāya;
Lords of the five families, the sambhogakāya of great bliss;
And deities who display vast compassion and skilful means,
Peaceful and wrathful deities of the three kāyas: to you I pay homage! 2