Sweet Melody to Delight the Glorious Deity In Praise of Śrī Kālīdevī
Namo śrī mahākālīdevyai!
Goddess emanated from the heart of the great and glorious deity,
The ultimate space of phenomena, empty and devoid of self,
You who fully possess the supreme of all aspects
And pervade saṃsāra and nirvāṇa—Samantabhadrī, to you I offer praise. 1
The basic space of reality has no conceivable features or attributes,
Yet, out of this state beyond arising, the display of arising magically unfolds,
And you take on various manifestations, both peaceful and wrathful—
To you, mother of a hundred names and thousand attributes, I offer praise.
You who manifest as the goddess Parṇaśavarī,
As the eight Gaurī, and in various other forms—
Great vajra enchantress, mistress of the three realms,
Glorious Queen of Space, to you I offer homage and praise.
Magnificent Goddess whose nature is that of the five elements
Of appearance and existence—steady, fluid, warm and agile,
Bearer of the splendour of the four times, lady cloaked in space,
Great Mother from whom saṃsāra and nirvāṇa are born, to you I offer praise.
In the heart of the Vajra Queen’s blossoming lotus
Infinite maṇḍalas abide forever, like heaps of sesame seeds,
And in the great and mysterious Akaniṣṭha,
You are the powerful yoginī, keeper of secrets—to you I offer praise.
Without essence or nature and transcending any notion of self,
You have entirely pacified the signs of conceptual elaboration
And are endowed with luminosity, the supreme of all aspects—
To you, the very essence of Prajñāpāramitā, I offer praise.
Out of empty basic space, you arise in your kāya of form
As the five female buddhas of perfect enjoyment,
At the pinnacle of the ten stages and transcendent perfections—
Glorious self-arisen queen, to you I offer homage and praise.
Together with Heruka, haughty Mahādeva and others,
Various different partners of great skilful methods,
You demonstrate the play of fourfold union—
Great goddess of illusion, to you I offer homage and praise.
To you who fully possess the qualities of nectar
From the rabbit-bearing moon of the syllable Haṃ
And constantly savour the supreme undefiled bliss
In which any fault of emission is absent, I offer praise.
You who have non-referential compassion for all beings
And care for them constantly with motherly love.
You who look upon them with eyes of deep loving kindness—
Sole mother, great bodhisattva, to you I offer praise.
You who course throughout ages past, present and future,
Pervading the four times as prosperity in lands and beings;
You who display countless forms of emanation
And train beings continuously—to you I offer praise.
You who abide in basic space without lapsing into the quiescent extreme,
And through illusory means engage passionately in conditioned existence;
You who display enlightened activity that will never come to an end
But continue for as long as saṃsāra itself endures—to you I bow down.
With dominion over the devas, you are the goddess Revatī,
With dominion over the nāgas, you are the nāginī Śaṅkhapālī,
And as a consort among the rākṣasas, you are Rāvaṇa’s great queen—
Sovereign lady of the ḍākinīs, to you I offer homage and praise.
Custodian of all the classes of tantra and secret mantra,
In the Blazing Volcano Charnel Ground of Akaniṣṭha,
You are the guardian of the Word, the copper-faced lady of wrath,
Subduer of foes throughout existence and peace—to you I offer praise.
Remajā, Remajī, Remajū 2 and Rabtenma,
Makzor Gyalmo, the wrathful queen of martial and sorcerous rites,
Together with Dorje Shokgöma, Sokdrupma and the rest—
To you who manifest as these various guardians of the teachings, I offer homage and praise.
To all your followers too, the ox-faced Kongsin,
Makara-faced Droksin, and bear-faced Bamsin,
As well as the legions of nakmo goddesses
Who teem in a darkening tempest, I offer praise.
Lady of wrath and power in this thousandfold realm,
You who blaze intensely with the power of apocalyptic fire,
Magnificent controller of all guardians of the teachings,
Glorious Goddess of the Desire Realm, to you I offer praise.
You who have a mother’s love and sister’s ardent care,
You who are a great support to practitioners of yoga,
I take you as my dear companion until enlightenment,
And, in sincere hope that we may never part, I offer praise.
Through the sweet music of these words of praise,
May the exacting demands of Rematī be fulfilled.
Please forgive all errors, confusions, impairments and breakages,
And grant the attainment of supreme and total purification.
All the riches of this world and that which lies beyond
I take up in my mind and offer to you, Mistress of the Desire Realm.
May this bring you immense joy and delight,
And may you carry out all four types of activity.
May the teaching of the omniscient Kinsman of the Sun 3 and those who uphold it spread far and wide.
May the teaching and practice of the Dharma of scripture and realization flourish.
May Dharma-endowed rulers and patrons gain ever higher status and glory.
And may all forces of darkness be eradicated entirely!
For us yogis, our patrons and all those around us,
May any doers of harm, whether they be embodied or immaterial,
Be tamed through the threefold activity of pacifying, enriching and magnetizing,
So that they carry out enlightened action with minds of love.
May those who bear hostility and are untameable through peaceful means
Be thoroughly annihilated, like tinder that is put to the flames,
So that their personal and family identity and descendants are no more,
And nothing, not even so much as their names, remains.
In short, may all that I conceive of and perceive
Arise as the magical manifestation of my own mind,
And by recognizing it with certainty as Ekajaṭī, Queen of Space,
May enlightened activity be spontaneously and effortlessly accomplished
Within the expanse of reality’s single, all-encompassing sphere.