The Source of Beings' Happiness
May the sole source of happiness among beings,
The Omniscient Conqueror's precious teachings,
Never decline in any place or at any time,
But flourish and spread to the farthest reaches of the world!
May those who possess boundless wisdom and love,
Who cherish the Conqueror's teachings more dearly than life itself,
The gurus and spiritual guides who are without equal,
Enjoy a long, extensive span of life!
May those who reveal to beings the noble path of virtue,
And who devote themselves to teaching and practice,
The saṅgha of Dharma practitioners, steadily endure,
And may their activity extend in every direction!
May people be unafraid of sickness, ageing and death
And hold only correct views about the world,
May their minds be full of loving kindness for one another,
So that their joy expands and knows no bounds!
May towns and cities everywhere be beautifully garlanded
With white prayer flags that flutter in the gentle breeze;
And may all their inhabitants be prosperous,
Finely dressed and adorned with jewels.
As clouds that flash with lightning embellish the sky,
And peacocks brighten the earth with their joyous dance,
May showers of gentle rain continuously descend
To bring increasing delight to living beings!
May mountains be adorned with meadows, flowers and streams,
And valleys overflow with crops of grain and herds of livestock,
May people sing out in perfect joy,
And all arrogance and quarrelling cease!
May kings and rulers govern peacefully and well,
As their subjects obey the laws with due respect;
Thus may outer and inner conflict be pacified
And happiness reign just as in the golden age!
May temples be adorned with the conquerors' images
And filled with many volumes of the noble Dharma,
While vast clouds of divine gifts beyond measure
Cause great cascades of offerings to rain down!
May all monasteries be filled with saffron-robed guides,
Who safeguard the teachings of the great Sage;
May they devote their time to teaching, debating and writing,
So that scriptural study and recitation thrive!
May lay practitioners, novices and fully ordained monks and nuns
Possess ethical discipline that remains untainted;
And through pure study, contemplation and meditation,
May the teachings of the sugatas spread far and wide!
May practitioners abandon every form of distraction,
Forsake all harm and stay far away from commotion;
In places of tranquility, may they cultivate renunciation,
So that their qualities of realization develop and increase!
May those who faithfully offer prayer in particular,
We practitioners and all those around us,
Enjoy prosperity that is untainted by wrong livelihood,
And may our lifespan and mastery of the Dharma increase!
May we gain all the attributes of the buddhas,
Including unsurpassable generosity, discipline,
Patience, diligence, concentration and wisdom,
And may our qualities of learning and realization grow!
By attracting disciples with our generosity and pleasant speech,
Through the purposeful act of teaching the Dharma correctly,
And through perfectly coordinating our own and others' aims, 1
May benefit to others in accordance with the Dharma increase!
May all that hinders and obstructs the Dharma be pacified
And every form of favourable circumstance abound,
So that all these virtues, lauded by the Sage himself,
May prevail and flourish in each and every way!