The Staircase Ascending to Khecara A Praise in Accord with the Arrangement of the Realm of Holy Nāro Khecarī
Oṃ svasti!
With the highest of praise from all conquerors and sons,
To the dwelling of innumerable ḍākinīs,
The great celestial palace of the supreme Vajra Queen;
With devotion I pay homage to the Realm of Khecara.
Ascending in a direction high above here,
In the middle of a ground strewn with rubies,
Completely constructed of jewels in every direction;
To that special sublime Realm I pay homage.
In the middle of that, well made from the five gems,
Is the great celestial palace of the powerful Khecarī,
With four sides, four doors, lintels, three floors and a pinnacle;
To that, with a vajra peak, I pay homage.
In the middle of the celestial palace are two dharmākaras — stacked.
Above a lotus, sun, Bhairava and Kālarātrī,
Is my iṣṭadevatā — Vajrayoginī,
Blazing with the marks and examples; I pay homage.
With one face, two hands and three eyes gazing upward,
Beautiful with a curved knife in the right, skullcup in the left,
And a khaṭvāṅga on the left shoulder,
Beautiful with the five mudrās; I pay homage.
Inside the dome of the upper celestial palace,
Is the great guru Nāropa, Tsewa Che,
The Lord of Dharma Tsarchen and the like;
To the beautiful lineal host, I pay homage.
Atop the palace is the root guru,
Non-differentiated from the Family Lord — Buddha Vajradharma,
With a body red in colour, holding to the heart a vajra and bell;
To the gathered essence of the Three Refuges, I pay homage.
In the courtyard and surroundings of the celestial palace,
Are a host of vīras and ḍākinīs — moving in the sky,
All dwelling like a gathering of massive clouds,
Thinking of me with love; I pay homage.
Therefore in all my lifetimes,
Relying closely on Vajrayoginī,
The basis and supported all together;
Until enlightenment, with devotion I go for refuge.
Presenting an ocean of offering clouds, outer, inner, and secret,
With body, speech and mind, confessing every sin and fault,
Verbally rejoicing in all the merit of Noble Beings,
The turning of the Dharma Wheel of the Supreme Vehicle I encourage.
I request you remain and not dwell in nirvana.
Dedicating the merit accumulated to the highest great enlightenment.
Beginning from this day forward, in all lifetimes,
I request Vajra Queen, closely guard.
Mistress of the Khecara Realm — Outer Yoginī,
Letter VAṂ of the heart — Inner Yoginī,
Union of clarity-emptiness — Ultimate Yoginī,
Recognizing self, may I ascend to Khecara.
At the time of the illusion of the great being, the support of life,
To that one complete refuge, Mistress of Khecara,
Smiling, with the sounds of melodious song and music;
To that pure realm I pray lead me.