A Brief Practice for Paying Homage and Making Offerings to the Buddha Together with His Retinue of Arhats
The ground is smooth like the palm of the hand, and bedecked with jewels.
It is adorned with wish-granting trees, rivers and lakes. In its centre,
In the jewelled palace with its four sides and four doors,
Upon seats of lotus, sun and moon,
Is the compassionate protector of beings, the one who sets
The beings of these troubled times on the path to liberation,
The supreme Śākyamuni together with the great sthaviras—
Come now to this place together with your retinues, we pray!
All the Victorious Ones of the ten directions and their heirs,
And those whose blazing fire of wisdom dries up the ocean of destructive emotions
And who abide by the Buddha's Words as fields of merit and liberation,
The śrāvaka saṅgha of the ten directions—all of you please come to this place!
With these offerings we invite you to stay here,
For sentient beings, please let these offerings lead you to this place.
You who hold in your hands the Buddhist teachings,
Of the protector of wandering beings,  Lion of the Śākyas,
You who open up the treasury of excellent discourses—
Arhat, great elders, please stay here, we pray!
As we invite you in order to spread the sacred Dharma,
Let these offerings lead you here for the sake of beings!
Through skilful means and compassion, you were born in the Śākya clan,
And, utterly invincible, you overcame the forces of Māra,
Your form resplendent like a mountain of burnished gold—
King of the Śākyas, at your feet I bow!
You who were instructed by the Buddha to uphold the victory banner of the teachings:
Aṅgaja, Ajita and Vanavāsin,
Kālika, Vajrīputra and Śrībhadra,
Kanakavatsa and sublime Kanakabhāradvāja,
The noble Bakula and Rāhula,
Kṣudrapanthaka and Piṇḍola Bhāradvāja,
Panthaka, Nāgasena, Gopaka and Abhedya,
Upāsaka Dharmatāla and the four great kings,
Together with all your retinues—at your lotus feet,
I prostrate, taking refuge and offering heartfelt prayers!
The ground is purified with scented water and strewn with flowers;
It is adorned with Sumeru, the four continents and the sun and moon:
Thinking of it as the blessed buddha-fields, I offer it.
By virtue of this offering, may all beings enjoy the happiness of those pure realms.
Both actual offerings and those created through the power of mantras, awareness and aspiration,
All these I offer; I confess all my harmful acts and downfalls;
I rejoice in all that is virtuous, and request and beseech you!
All this virtue, I dedicate towards great enlightenment!
Great conquerors and throne holders, please think of us!
Lord of sages and gathering of noble sthaviras,
By the power of hearing, thinking of, and repeating your names, and paying homage and making offerings to you,
For us and all other beings, whosoever and wheresoever they may be,
May all temporary and ultimate disharmony be pacified,
And may happiness, virtue, glory and prosperity increase!
Inspire us to follow the spiritual teachers of the supreme vehicle,
And always be sustained by the nectar of their teachings!
Inspire us to maintain pure discipline and engage in study, reflection and meditation,
So that we may train perfectly in renunciation and twofold bodhicitta,
And, without ever neglecting activity for others' benefit,
Attain the level of perfect omniscience!
May the faultless teaching of the Buddha flourish and spread in all directions!
May the supreme holders of the teachings remain for hundreds of kalpas!
May virtue and excellence pervade throughout the world!
And may our own and others’ benefit be spontaneously accomplished!