The Root Verses on the Six Bardos
Kyema! Now when the bardo of this life is dawning upon me,
I will abandon laziness for which life has no time,
Enter, undistracted, the path of study, reflection and meditation,
Making perceptions and mind the path, and realize the three kāyas;
Now that for once I have attained a human body,
This is not the time to remain in the ways of distraction.
Kyema! Now when the bardo of dreams is dawning upon me,
I will abandon the heedless, corpse-like sleep of ignorance,
And settle the mind in its natural state without distraction;
Recognizing dreams, I will train in transformation and clear light,
I must not simply slumber like an animal,
But combine sleep with realization—this is crucial.
Kyema! Now when the bardo of samādhi is dawning upon me,
I will abandon all forms of distraction and delusion,
And rest in the infinite state that is free of distraction and grasping;
Gaining stability in the two stages: generation and perfection,
At this time of single-pointed meditation, having given up activity,
I must not fall under the sway of afflictions and delusion.
Kyema! Now when the bardo of dying is dawning upon me,
I will abandon all grasping, yearning, and attachment,
Enter, undistracted, a state in which the instructions are clear,
And transfer my own awareness into the sphere of unborn space;
As I am about to leave this compound body of flesh and blood,
I will know it to be a transitory illusion.
Kyema! Now when the bardo of dharmatā is dawning upon me,
I will abandon all fear and terror,
Recognizing whatever appears as the natural display of awareness,
I will know it to be the way this bardo unfolds;
Now that I have reached this momentous, crucial point,
I will not fear these natural manifestations, the peaceful and wrathful deities.
Kyema! Now when the bardo of becoming is dawning upon me,
I will concentrate my mind with single-pointed determination,
Strive to prolong the results of good karma,
Close the entrance to rebirth, and try to keep from being reborn.
This is the time when perseverance and pure perception are required;
Abandon jealousy, and meditate on the master and consort.
With mind far off and no thought of impending death,
Performing the meaningless activities of this life,
To return empty-handed now would be utterly deluded;
Recognize what is needed: the sacred Dharma,
Why not practise it now, at this very moment?
The great accomplished gurus have said:
If you do not keep in mind your master's instructions
Are you not deceiving yourself?