The Concise Cleansing (Sang) Offering From The Guru’s Heart Practice: Dispeller of All Obstacles (Lamé Tukdrup Barché Kunsel)
Kyé! The unborn, originally pure basic space free of constructs
Manifests as the five-colored lights of unobstructed, spontaneous presence.
From the illusory display of effortless compassion,
Beings of saṃsāra and nirvāṇa, appearing as anything whatsoever,
As we invite you to this place of offering and giving,
Like a rainbow appearing in the sky,
Please come here immediately and
Be seated on whichever seat you please.
sarva samaya jaḥ jaḥ
raṃ yaṃ khaṃ
All phenomena are the illusory radiance of awareness.
The fire, wind, and water of great wakefulness
Burn, scatter, and wash away all impure, deluded habitual tendencies and
Purify them into emptiness.
Within the state of emptiness is the basic space of the five consorts,
In which the perfect cloud of cleansing offerings
Becomes a treasure cloud of unsurpassable sense pleasures
Filling the treasury of space.
oṃ āḥ hūṃ
In the self-occurring luminous maṇḍala of empty clarity
Blazes a fire of nectar-filled wood.
From the smoke of every desirable sense pleasure
Rains down a myriad of divine offerings.
Form, sound, smell, taste, and texture are gathered like cloud banks.
The auspicious substances and signs, the seven royal possessions,
Food, drink, clothes, ornaments, grains, medicines, steeds and the like—
A vast, inexhaustible Samantabhadra offering cloud
Of the infinite enjoyments of saṃsāra and nirvāṇa
Completely fills the whole of space.
Source of refuge until awakening,
Undeceiving, precious Three Jewels—accept this cleansing offering.
Sovereigns of all blessings, siddhis, and activities,
Host of gurus, yidams, and ḍākinīs—accept this cleansing offering.
Those who oversee good and evil in accordance with samaya,
Ocean of oath-bound outer and inner Dharma protectors—accept this cleansing offering.
Yakṣas, wealth gods, and treasure lords
Who dispel misery and rain down everything desirable—accept this cleansing offering.
Hordes of ghosts of the three-thousandfold universe
Who can benefit or harm and move with miraculous powers—accept this cleansing offering.
In particular, protectors of the land of Tibet in Jambudvīpa,
Virtuous gods, nāgas, local deities, and your retinues—accept this cleansing offering.
Gur deities of kings and birth deities of the people, and
World-formation deities—accept this cleansing offering.
Main land protectors of Tibet, five mentsünma sisters,
Your emanations and retinue—accept this cleansing offering.
Lords of the years, months, days, time, of astrological squares and trigrams 1 —
All the gods of the elemental sciences—accept this cleansing offering.
Co-emergent and temporarily-appointed deities,
Guardian spirits who increase conducive circumstances—accept this cleansing offering.
Unfavorable, obstructive karmic creditors,
Innately present or suddenly appearing—I dedicate to you this cleansing offering.
Our mothers from previous lives, objects of compassion,
The guests of the six classes in the three realms and three planes—I give you this cleansing offering.
In short, the outer environment is cleansed as boundless pure lands,
The adornment wheel of inexhaustible sense pleasures.
The inhabitants, all beings, are cleansed as the mudrā deities of the three roots,
The great indivisibility of basic space and wakefulness.
Cleansed! Cleansed by the smoke of nectar-filled wood—
May all unclean stains of samaya violation be purified!
Offered! I offer clouds of an ocean of sense pleasures—
Accomplish the supreme and common siddhis and perform the four activities!
I offer the choicest part to the Three Jewels, the guests of honor.
Bestow blessings and empowerment! Make the splendor of compassion shine forth!
May the sacred bonds with the protectors, guests of qualities, be fulfilled.
Dispel all obstacles and make conducive circumstances and excellence increase!
I fully dedicate to the classes of obstructers, the guests of karmic credit.
Pleased and satisfied, help us accomplish our beneficial plans and actions!
I give to the whole six classes, all guests of compassion.
May they be free of all suffering and be happy!
In this auspicious, joyful, and virtuous place,
Through this offering and giving of cleansing amṛta,
May all good fortune and excellence of the world and beings
Of saṃsāra, nirvāṇa, and the boundless pure lands of the ten directions be magnetized here.
May the three parts of the day blaze with auspiciousness like the shining sun.
May the three parts of the night radiate with auspiciousness like the glowing moon.
Throughout day and night may everything be auspicious, blissful, and excellent, and
May an abundance of auspiciousness and virtuous signs instantly appear!