Brief Amitābha Sleeping Practice 1. Prostration 2. Offering 3. Confession 4. Rejoicing 5. Imploring the Buddhas to Turn the Wheel of Dharma 6. Requesting the Buddhas not to Enter Nirvāṇa 7. Dedication
In the Buddha, the Dharma and the Supreme Assembly
I take refuge until I attain enlightenment.
Through the merit of practising generosity and so on,
May I attain buddhahood for the benefit of all beings.
You are the protectors of all beings, every single one.
You are the deities who remorselessly destroy the māras and their forces.
You who know all things just as they are, in their true nature,
Enlightened ones, with your retinues, come now to this place!
Oṃ amitābha hrīḥ saparivāra ehy ehi vajra samājaḥ | padma kamālaya stvam ||
To all the buddhas, the lions of the human race,
In all directions of the universe, through past and present and future:
To every single one of you, I bow in homage;
Devotion fills my body, speech and mind.
Through the power of this prayer, aspiring to Good Action,
All the victorious ones appear, vivid here before my mind
And I multiply my body as many times as atoms in the universe,
Each one bowing in prostration to all the buddhas.
In every atom preside as many buddhas as there are atoms,
And around them, all their bodhisattva heirs:
And so I imagine them filling
Completely the entire space of reality.
Saluting them with an endless ocean of praise,
With the sounds of an ocean of different melodies
I sing of the buddhas’ noble qualities,
And praise all those who have gone to perfect bliss.
To every buddha, I make offerings:
Of the loveliest flowers, of beautiful garlands,
Of music and perfumed ointments, the best of parasols,
The brightest lamps and finest incense.
To every buddha, I make offerings:
Exquisite garments and the most fragrant scents,
Powdered incense, heaped as high as Mount Meru,
Arranged in perfect symmetry.
Then the vast and unsurpassable offerings—
Inspired by my devotion to all the buddhas, and
Moved by the power of my faith in Good Actions—
I prostrate and offer to all you victorious ones.
Whatever negative acts I have committed,
While driven by desire, hatred and ignorance,
With my body, my speech and also with my mind,
Before you, I confess and purify each and every one.
With a heart full of delight, I rejoice at all the merits
Of buddhas and bodhisattvas,
Pratyekabuddhas, those in training and the arhats beyond training,
And every living being, throughout the entire universe.
You who are like beacons of light shining through the worlds,
Who passed through the stages of enlightenment, to attain buddhahood, freedom from all attachment,
I exhort you: all of you protectors,
Turn the unsurpassable wheel of Dharma.
Joining my palms together, I pray
To you who intend to pass into nirvāṇa,
Remain, for aeons as many as the atoms in this world,
And bring well-being and happiness to all living beings.
What little virtue I have gathered through my homage,
Through offering, confession, and rejoicing,
Through exhortation and prayer—all of it
I dedicate to the enlightenment of all beings!
Bhagavān, tathāgata, arhat, complete and perfect buddha, Amitābha, to you I pay homage! In you I take refuge!
The Buddha Amitābha, 'Limitless Light' is before me.
From the syllable Hrīḥ at his heart a second syllable emerges,
Passes through his right nostril and enters my left nostril,
From where it descends to the centre of my heart.
It radiates light and rays of light,
Which purify my misdeeds, obscurations and habitual patterns.
Then, together with my exhalation of breath,
It passes through my right nostril to enter
The conqueror's left nostril and dissolve back into the Hrīḥ.
My own mind and the victorious one's wisdom mind
Merge indivisibly and I rest in a state beyond the ordinary mind.