Supplication to the Lineage of the Heart Essence of the Vast Expanse Prayer to the Gurus of the Lineage Prayer to Longchenpa Prayer to Jigme Lingpa Prayer to First Dodrupchen, Jigme Trinle Özer Prayer to Jigme Gyalwe Nyugu Prayer to the Fourth Dzogchen Rinpoche, Mingyur Namkhe Dorje Prayer to Gyalse Shenpen Taye Prayer to Do Khyentse Prayer to Patrul Rinpoche Prayer to Khenpo Pema Vajra Prayer to Khyentse Wangpo Prayer to Jamgön Kongtrul Prayer to Mipham Rinpoche Prayer to Orgyen Tendzin Norbu Prayer to Adzom Drukpa Drodul Pawo Dorje Prayer to the Third Dodrupchen Jigme Tenpe Nyima Prayer to Könchok Drakpa 6 Prayer to Shechen Gyaltsab Gyurme Pema Namgyal Prayer to Nyoshul Lungtok Tenpe Nyima Prayer to Khenpo Ngawang Palzang Prayer to Dzongsar Khyentse Chökyi Lodrö Prayer to Shechen Kongtrul Pema Drimé Lekpé Lodrö Prayer to Dilgo Khyentse Rinpoche Prayer to the Root Guru
Samantabhadra, Vajrasattva, Garab Dorje, Śrī Siṃha,
Padmākara and the twenty five disciples—king and subjects,
So, Zur, Nub, Nyang, 1 the hundred treasure-revealers and all the rest—
Gurus of kama and terma , I supplicate you.
Just like the Six Ornaments and Two Supreme Ones who beautify our world,
You were their equal in your mastery of compassion, learning and realization,
Yet you practised hidden in the forest in sacred solitude.
Longchenpa, who perfected saṃsāra and nirvāṇa in the state of dharmakāya,
Drimé Özer—Stainless Light—at your feet I supplicate.
The source of love and compassion for all beings, who knows all that is knowable,
You are the emanation of Longchenpa, and heir to a treasury of mind termas;
Sky-like yogin of the vast expanse of luminosity,
Jigme Lingpa, at your feet I supplicate.
Emanation of the great tertön Sangye Lingpa,
Who was indivisible from Padmasambhava, knower of the three times,
You are free of deceit and a hidden yogi—
Jigme Trinle Özer, I supplicate you.
Compassionate emanation of the Noble Lord of the World, 2
You are the most excellent guide, leading beings to the isle of liberation,
Yogin of the vast expanse, benefiting all you encounter—
Jigme Gyalwe Nyugu, I supplicate you.
Padmasambhava, embodiment of all buddhas, past, present and future,
And Vimalamitra, who attained the indestructible rainbow body—
You are inseparable from them, the splendid embodiment of their compassion,
Mingyur Namkhe Dorje, I supplicate you.
Having realized the altruistic mind of bodhicitta,
The sole path traversed by the all the bodhisattvas, exactly as it is,
You reveal it to limitless beings—
Benevolent guru, I supplicate you.
In the Truly Perfected Realm you are the heruka,
In Cāmara, Powerful Lotus Garland of Skulls, 3
In Tibet, the honourable Jalü Dorje—
Jigme Yeshe Dorje, I supplicate you.
Outwardly, you are the bodhisattva Śāntideva,
Inwardly, the lord of siddhas Śavari,
Secretly, the supremely noble Natural Liberation of Suffering 4 in person—
Jigme Chökyi Wangpo, I supplicate you.
Through the blessing of the vidyādharas of the three lineages,
Deities and ḍākinīs, you became heir of the profound instructions that mature and liberate.
Holder of the modes of transmission—
Pema Vajra, I supplicate at your feet.
In the noble land you were the accomplished master Mañjuśrīmitra,
In the Land of Snow, Lord Tri Songdetsen—Mañjuśrī in person,
Now, you are indivisible from the omniscient King of the Dharma—
Khyentse Wangpo, I supplicate you.
Knower of all, treasury of an ocean of qualities , 5
Lodrö Taye , the one prophesied by the Victorious One;
Pema Gargyi Wangpo , holder of all lineages,
Great Charioteer of the world, I supplicate you.
Through the blessings of the youthful Mañjuśrī, awareness and emptiness conjoined,
The eight treasures of confidence arose from the expanse of your realization,
Master of ocean-like Dharma treasures of transmission and realization—
Ajita Vijaya (Mipham Namgyal), I supplicate you.
Holder of the victory banner of the teachings of learning and practice
In the lineage of the great vidyādhara of Uḍḍiyāna—
Lord of Dharma, you are truly a treasury of precious qualities,
Glorious guru, I supplicate you.
Having purified saṃsāra and nirvāṇa within luminosity,
You caused the various manifestations of delusion to fade within the space of utter transparency
And realized natural liberation, the exhaustion of phenomena, within the expanse of wisdom—
Garwang Shyepe Dorje, I supplicate you.
Fearlessly you turned the wheel of the supreme vehicle’s teaching;
Omniscient Sun of the Teachings of study and practice,
You hold the life-force of the luminous, indestructible essence—
All-knowing lord of scholars and adepts, I supplicate you.
Fearless charioteer of kama and terma , lord of scholars and adepts,
With your brilliant mind you opened the gateways of the maturing and liberating instructions
Of the ever-excellent Padmasambhava’s lineage—
Könchok Drakpa, I supplicate you.
Magnificent and glorious lord, by upholding the treasury of the teachings of the definitive, secret essence,
You became the sole embodiment of the wisdom all of the gurus
Of the direct, symbolic and ear-whispered traditions—
Orgyen Tukchok Dorje, I supplicate you.
By realizing all things to be of one taste, you released the knots of the eight worldly dharmas.
Within the primordially pure expanse, mentally created images dissolved
And you directly beheld the Great Perfection’s way of abiding—
Lungtok Tenpe Nyima, I supplicate you.
Ngakgi Wangpo, the indivisible union of
Vimalamitra, who actualized the maṇḍala of the supreme stage, and
Longchenpa, the teacher of Samantabhadra’s truth-body:
I supplicate you! Pray bless me that our minds may merge as one.
Outwardly, you are the bodhisattva, the lordly Chökyi Lodrö,
Inwardly, the master Mañjuśrīmitra,
Secretly, the glorious Heruka, perfect in qualities—
I supplicate you from depths of my heart: please bless my mind.
Representative of the ever-excellent Padmasambhava, Vidyādhara Lodrö Taye,
Whose compassionate mind radiates with rays of light,
Inducing vast altruistic activity and manifesting
As our glorious lama—at your feet I supplicate.
Having crossed the ocean of discipline, listening and contemplation,
You illuminate the Teachings of the Sage with the light of study and practice.
Friend who delights fortunate disciples, protector of beings;
Guru who raises high the victory banner of Dharma, I supplicate you.
Kunzang Degyal, 7 Tubten Chödor, 8
Guṇa, 9 Pema Dechen, 10 Künga Pal, 11
Tekchok Loden, 12 Jamyang Tendzin 13
And Thubten Chöpel 14 —I supplicate you.
Cared for by an ocean of masters, unrivalled in their learning and accomplishment,
You studied and contemplated impartially on the Teachings of the Sage
Armoured with the altruistic wish to benefit the teachings and beings—
Jigme Khyentse Özer, I supplicate you.
Within the dharmadhātu palace of Akaniṣṭha
Is the intrinsic nature of all the buddhas of the three times.
Honourable root guru, you who directly introduced me
To the dharmakāya nature of my mind, I supplicate you.