A Glimpse of the Crucial Points 1 The Vidyādhara's Manual of Concealed Instructions (Gabjang) 1. Concealed Instruction on the Wisdom Deity 2. Concealed Instruction on the Mantra 3. Concealed Instruction on the Palanquin Samādhi 4. Concealed Instruction on the Result
I prostrate to the ocean of vidyādharas of the sign transmission!
In the heart of Padmasambhava, subduer of all that appears and exists,
Is the king of vidyādharas, Vajradharma:
His body coral-coloured, as if anointed with oil,
Glistening and radiant, with a glowing complexion.
With one face and two hands, semi-wrathful,
Naked, with bone ornaments and topknot,
He holds vajra and bell intertwined; on his lap
The blue yoginī, holding hooked knife and skull-cup,
Her adornments matching those of her consort.
They reside in a state of intense desire,
Joined in uncontaminated great bliss.
At my heart, upon a lotus, sun and moon
The blue letter hūṃ, and around it
Revolves the mantra mālā, 2 as fine as if written by a single hair.
From it rays of light stream out, purifying the environment and all beings.
Perceiving everything purely in the natural space of Padmasambhava—
Until this is actualized, I shall not let go of the practice!
oṃ āḥ hūṃ vajra guru padma siddhi hūṃ
oṃ āḥ hūṃ vajra mahāguru sarva siddhi hūṃ
From the mantra mālā turning clockwise at his heart,
Streams out a mantra mālā, like a chain,
Which emerges from the mouth of the wisdom being.
Entering the female consort’s mouth, it descends through her body,
Revolves anti-clockwise around the vaṃ at her heart
And descends through ‘the jewel path of the secret space’.
As the mantra mālā revolves, like a firebrand,
The male and female deities experience great bliss,
Which blazes up, overwhelmingly, and causes
Rays of compassionate light to stream out in all directions.
The chief deities of the maṇḍala, along with their retinues,
Increase their experience of the wisdom of bliss and emptiness;
Hand-drum and bell rattle and ring,
From their mouths resonates the murmuring song of hūṃ.
Bodhicitta, the indivisibility of space and awareness,
The infinite purity of all experience and perception—
In the complete perfection of this one maṇḍala
Rest, without moving from the state of awareness.