Jewels of Many Colours Ordinary Fire Pūjas for the Four Activities Based on a Single Substance to Easily Conclude Approach and Accomplishment A. General instructions B. Specific instructions 1. Pacifying Pacification of obstructing forces and obstacles Elimination of Pollution 2. Enriching Possible Emendations 3. Magnetizing 4. Subjugating
Namo guru deva ḍākinī ye
Oṃ āḥ hūṃ
The essence of fire has always been Pāṇḍarāvasinī.
She appears in the form of masses of radiant, white wisdom fire.
There reside the deities of the maṇḍala of the name of the deity ,
White, brilliant, peaceful and smiling, and radiating white light.
Their hand implements are the vajra and the vase filled with nectar,
And they wear all the ornaments. Wisdom deities indivisible from the samaya deities,
Please stay here happy to perform the pacifying activities.
My negative actions, obscurations, faults, transgressions, habitual tendencies,
And in particular the mistakes I have made in my practice, such as additions and omissions during the recitation of mantras, and so on –
All the mistakes that run against the vajra samayas
Are carried by the air that comes out of my nostrils and is absorbed into the sesame seeds.
The sesame seeds become an unceasing stream of untainted nectar
Offered to the mouths of the deities of the maṇḍala
Now glowing, enraptured by supreme wisdom.
Blessings emerge from the fire in the form of moon-coloured light
That incinerates completely all concepts, obscurations and habitual tendencies.
oṃ āḥ hūṃ hrīḥ vajra guru deva ḍākinī sarva siddhi phala hūṃ āḥ
oṃ sarva pāpaṃ dahana vajrāya svāhā
The practitioner(s)’s problems – diseases, negative influences, negative actions, obscurations, additions and omissions in the mantra recitation, and so on – all are śāntiṃ kuruye svāhā!
Doing the practice of prāṇa, I inhale through the nostrils
The maṇḍala of wisdom deities in the fire.
The prāṇa unites indivisibly with the tummo fire under the navel,
Blazing and filling my entire body,
To burn away completely all the impurities of the body's subtle channels.
The essences of the elements melt into the nectar of great bliss
And immaculate bliss enraptures
The deities of the maṇḍala naturally present in the aggregates, elements and sense sources.
And negative influences, obstructing forces and obstacles.
oṃ sarva artha siddhāya svāhā
Negative influences, obstructing forces, elemental demons, negative circumstances, obstacles—all are śāntiṃ kuru svāhā!
In the natural state of emptiness, instantly, ༔
Amid masses of intense wisdom fire, ༔
Hūṃ becomes the king of the wrathful ones Ucchuṣma, ༔
Smoke-coloured and with wrathful expression. ༔
His two hands in front of his heart form the threatening mudrā. ༔
He is adorned with the silks, jewels and snakes. ༔
His two legs in striding posture, he stands upon a lotus and sun. ༔
Samaya and wisdom deities are indivisible. ༔
Confident that my hair, nails, these pieces of my clothes and so on ༔
Gather all breakages of samaya, negative actions, ༔
Obscurations, veils and impurities, ༔
I transform them into nectar through ‘Oṃ āḥ hūṃ’ ༔
And offer all to the mouths of the deities who enjoy it without leaving even a drop. ༔
Delighted and satisfied, they blaze with rays of light ༔
That cleanse all adverse circumstances that affect me. ༔
oṃ bhur kur mahāprāṇāya ༔
bhur ci bhur ki vimale ༔
ucchuṣma krodharāja hūṃ phaṭ ༔
sarva pāpaṃ sarva karma āvaraṇa bhaśmiṃ kuru svāhā ༔
oṃ maṇi dhari hrida anupāśa dhari hrida hūṃ phaṭ ༔
The deities melt into light that dissolves into me ༔
And the wisdom fire consumes entirely ༔
All negative actions, obscurations, ༔
Veils and impurities without exception. ༔
Oṃ āḥ hūṃ
The essence of fire has always been Pāṇḍarāvasinī.
She appears in the form of masses of yellow, radiant wisdom fire.
There reside the deities of the maṇḍala of say the name of the deity ,
Yellow, brilliant, elegant, and radiating yellow light.
Their hand implements are blazing jewels,
And they wear all the ornaments. Wisdom deities indivisible from the samaya deities,
Please stay here happy to perform the enriching activities.
The burned offerings become an unceasing stream of untainted yellow nectar,
Offered to the mouths of the deities of the maṇḍala.
Now glowing, enraptured by supreme wisdom.
Their sun-coloured light rays enter me
Increasing fully the qualities of Mantra wisdom.
oṃ sarva sambade svāhā
The longevity, merit, fortune, Mantra wisdom of the practitioner(s) are all puṣṭiṃ kuru oṃ
oṃ āḥ hūṃ sarva ayuḥ puṇye jñāna puṣṭiṃ kuru oṃ
Oṃ āḥ hūṃ
The essence of fire has always been Pāṇḍarāvasinī.
She appears in the form of masses of red, radiant wisdom fire.
There reside the deities of the maṇḍala of say the name of the deity ,
Red, glowing, full of desire, and radiating red light.
Their hand implements are the hook and the lasso of lotus,
And they wear all the ornaments. Wisdom deities indivisible from the samaya deities,
Please stay here happy to perform the magnetizing activities.
The offerings to burn become an unceasing stream of red nectar of great bliss,
Offered to the mouth of the deities of the maṇḍala.
Untainted bliss satisfies them completely and they thrill with desire.
They emit rays of red light shaped in hooks that fill the whole of space
And bring us the capacity, strength and power of Mantra wisdom,
And power over everything that appears and exists in saṃsāra and nirvāṇa.
oṃ sarva sambade svāhā
oṃ vajra vijaya svāhā
May the practitioner(s) have power over all ordinary and supreme accomplishments, Mantra wisdom and all that appears and exists in the three realms – vāśaṃ kuru hoḥ
oṃ āḥ hūṃ sarva loka vāśaṃ kuru hoḥ
Oṃ āḥ hūṃ
The essence of fire has always been Pāṇḍarāvasinī.
It appears in the form of masses of raging wisdom fire, dark red in colour.
There reside the deities of the maṇḍala of say the name of the deity .
Extremely wrathful, fierce, vehement, and radiating rays of dark blue light.
Their weapons are swords, kīlas and so on,
And they wear the blazing garments. Wisdom deities indivisible from the samaya deities,
Come quickly to carry out the subjugating activities.
The burned offerings become an incessant stream of nectar of the flesh and blood of enemies and obstructing forces,
Offered to the mouths of the deities of the maṇḍala who swallow it all ravenously.
Their bodies emanate fire, weapons, small wrathful deities and violent lightning
That reduce to dust all enemies, obstructing forces and damsi demons who create obstacles,
As if even their names had never existed.
oṃ sarva śatrūn vighnān daha daha hūṃ phaṭ
Enemies, obstructing forces, misleading influences, elemental demons who create harm and obstacles to the practitioner(s) are all māraya phaṭ!