The Sweet Song of Māra's Defeat A Prayer for the Long Life of the Great Tertön and Vidyādhara Lerab Lingpa
Oṃ svasti sidhyantu!
The mantra adept Nanam Dorje Dudjom
Was a supreme disciple of noble family, an expression of the wisdom realization
Of the mahāguru Padmasambhava,
Sovereign embodiment of the Three Supreme Ones and Three Roots.
His emanations arise unobstructedly like reflections of the moon in water,
And in this age of increasing degeneration he is a friend and protector of the teachings and beings,
A treasure trove overflowing with profound and vast Dharma riches,
Great emanated vidyādhara—I pray that your life may remain secure.
Inspired by the blessings of Padma, the Universal Bearer,
You perfected the strength of the powerful vidyā-mantras
Of Vajrakīla, the supreme deity of enlightened activity,
And put the ḍākinīs and dharmapālas to fourfold action.
You whose throne is upon a mass of the eight arrogant spirits
And who liberates the hordes of unruly foes and demons,
Fierce and mighty vidyādhara, Dükyi Shechen, 'Slayer of Demons',
Great subjugator of the three realms, may your life remain secure.
You whose form expresses a hundred vajra dances of magical illusion,
Whose speech resounds with the indestructible vajra melody of nāda,
And whose mind is filled with the nectar of immaculate great bliss—
Lerab Lingpa, may your life remain secure for a hundred aeons.
You who shine like the sun of the supreme essential teachings,
And possess the power of excellent wisdom, capacity and love,
Supreme crown adornment of all adepts in this snow-filled land,
May you remain forever on the immovable vajra throne, I pray.
Through the blazing force of awareness-emptiness realization, the definitive secret,
May the whole animate and inanimate world be sealed with primordial wisdom.
Through the descent of blessings of the great, naturally arisen luminosity,
May the environment and beings spontaneously manifest as vast primordial purity.
May all the tribulations of deluded conception be pacified within basic space.
May the glorious qualities of inexhaustible joy and happiness continuously expand.
And through the blazing of a thousand positive signs of perfect wonder throughout existence and quiescence,
May the three worlds be enriched with the splendour of auspiciousness.
Through the power and truth of the unfailing compassionate Three Roots,
And my own pure and noble intentions as a practitioner,
May these points of aspiration be swiftly fulfilled,
Bringing victory in the battle with adversity and Māra's hordes.