An Aspiration for the Final Age
Namo! From the depths of my heart, I take refuge in the Three Jewels.
Until I gain acceptance of the unborn nature of reality,
May I never again fall into the lower realms
But attain a human body, superior even to a godly form.
Even if I attain the higher realms, nowhere in saṃsāra
Is free from the bonds of the three types of suffering.
And even within fortunate realms, may I avoid a form
That would obstruct nirvāṇa, such as the unfree states.
May I avoid birth as an evil king or minister lacking restraint,
Who takes delight in warfare and twists and flouts the law.
May I not become a servant, lowly and tormented,
Or a merchant, or anyone who is devious or at fault.
May I not become a steward who steals the Saṅgha’s wealth,
Or one without qualities or liberation who appropriates funds.
May I avoid rebirth as a renunciant who offends householders
As they strive for better rebirth and who torments the minds of others.
May I not become someone as ill-natured as a serpent
Or one whose envy of others’ wealth resembles an asura’s.
May I avoid rebirth as one who deceives the venerable
And despises the Dharma, or as a thief, a robber or a hunter.
May I avoid the five boundless crimes and five similar misdeeds,
And refrain from remorselessly committing the ten non-virtues.
May I avoid all major forms of wrongdoing and misconduct,
Such as setting forests ablaze or stealing honey from hives.
Avoiding such plights, now, at the close of the five hundred, 1
Having gained the precious support of a human body,
Whether as a monastic or upholder of lay vows,
May I inherit the lineage of the bodhisattvas.
As soon as I’m reborn, may I meet a master who flawlessly
And authentically teaches the Mahāyāna path,
And by pleasing him or her in every way,
May I gain the wisdom of hearing, contemplation and meditation.
Furthermore, by possessing the motivation of bodhicitta
And familiarizing myself with the application of the six perfections,
May I gain the supreme good fortune to traverse all at once
The five paths and ten stages and master the tantra collection!