The Essential Activity Manual for the Awesome Ones’ Assembly, the Heart Practice of Vidyādharas, from the Heart Essence of the Vast Expanse 1. Gathering the Accumulations 2. Establishing the Boundary 3. Blessing the Offerings 4. Generating the Deity 5. Granting the Empowerment 6. Inviting the Wisdom Deities 7. Requesting Them to Remain 8. Paying Homage 9. Making Offerings 10. Offering Praise 11. Mantra recitation 1. The Peaceful Approach 2. The Wrathful Accomplishment 3. Application of Activities 12. The Feast-gathering The Blessing The Invitation The First Portion The Intermediate Offering of Confession The Liberation Dedicating the Remainder Aspiration Prayer 13. The Conclusion 1. Receiving the Accomplishments 2. Confession of Mistakes 3. The Dissolution and Re-emergence 4. Dedication and Aspiration 5. Prayer of Auspiciousness
Deities of the maṇḍala of the nine expanses of wisdom, guru Awesome Ones, I invite you in the sky in front—vajra-samājaḥ!
Hoḥ. I prostrate to the vajra master,
Glorious embodiment of the buddhas of past, present and future!
With a mind free from all duality,
I take refuge in the Three Jewels, the objects of reliance!
I request that you accept these pure offerings,
Both actual and envisioned.
My faults, the hindrances that cut the flow of accomplishments, 1
I confess without exception.
In all those actions throughout the ten directions done without attachment
And free from concepts of subject, object and action, I rejoice!
I awaken the perfect mind set upon awakening,
Pure and untainted by the four extremes.
To the bliss-gone ones, 2 mighty lords and sentient beings. 3
I offer my body for the threefold purpose. 4
Gathering the merits accumulated throughout all my lives,
I dedicate them to supreme enlightenment!
I consider that the field of accumulation dissolves into me.
Instantly I imagine that I transform into the form of the vajra heruka, blue in colour and holding a skull-cup filled with blood.
Hūṃ. I am Vajra Wrath.
My sun and moon eyes burn and blaze.
My heart emits wrathful deities like sparks.
The billionfold universe is filled with emanating fire,
And all directions are filled with a frenzy of weapons.
Within selflessness and emptiness, I set the boundary!
oṃ sūrya-candra vajra-krodha jvala raṃ raṃ cakravarti mahā-krodha sarva-duṣṭān e hūṃ phaṭ
Hūṃ. From basic space the three wisdom syllables descend like rain,
Burning, scattering, and washing away any faults and impurities in the offering substances.
From bhrūṃ arises a jewelled vessel and from a arises a skull-cup
That contains oceans of outer, inner, and secret offering clouds.
oṃ vajra-arghaṃ pādyaṃ puṣpe dhūpe dīpaṃ gandhe rūpa śabda gandhe rāsa sparśa sarva-pūja āḥ hūṃ
oṃ āḥ hūṃ sarva-pañcāmṛta hūṃ hrīḥ thaḥ
oṃ āḥ hūṃ mahā-baliṅte teja-baliṅte balapati guhya-samaye svāhā
oṃ āḥ hūṃ mahā-rakta samanta-maṇḍala hūṃ phaṭ
Hūṃ. Naturally-arisen awareness, suchness devoid of self—
Its display is all-illuminating, great compassion, whose radiance is
The causal awareness—hūṃ. It purifies the world and beings
And then transforms into a five-pronged vajra.
Instantly, it converts into the causal heruka,
Who arises in the sky of the mother—the inexpressible five expanses.
From his heart unfold e, yaṃ, ra, suṃ, keṃ and raṃ.
From e comes space, from yaṃ the whirling wind.
From ra comes rakta, from suṃ the ground of human skin.
From keṃ a terraced mountain of bones.
From raṃ the magnificent expanse of blazing apocalyptic fire.
From hūṃ a massive vajra of meteoric iron, and above that,
From the expanse of the sky, a five-coloured bhrūṃ descends.
bhrūṃ ratna bhanda jñāna cakra maṇḍala bhrūṃ
The syllable bhrūṃ transforms into the emanated palace.
The outside of the palace is made of jewels, the inside of skulls.
It has four corners and four doors, and possesses all the proper qualities and characteristics.
It has a guṇa-toraṇa 6 archway with eight levels,
Dharma-wheels, deer, parasols, and a jewel top-ornament.
On the outside, the foundations of the walls are made of jewels.
On the red offering-ledges are the sixteen goddesses.
The palace is adorned with yellow bricks and latticework.
It has rain spouts and parapets, and the upper stories have vajra-ornaments.
The inside of the palace appears as a charnel ground.
On the outside it is surrounded by the eight charnel grounds and the vajra tent.
Within the expanse of blazing apocalyptic fire, roaring and flashing,
Is the magnificent palace of the Unsurpassed 7 realm ‘Display of the Great Secret’,
Utterly terrifying. In the centre of an eight-spoked wheel made of meteoric iron
Is e , the expanse of great bliss—Samantabhadrā. 8
Within it, the beasts trample the nine great haughty ones.
On a lotus of non-attachment blaze the seats of sun and moon—method and insight.
rudra krodhi tira baṃ
paṃ padma-maṇḍala
ma sūrya-maṇḍala
a candra-maṇḍala
Hūṃ. The naturally-arisen causal herukas 9
Descend from the space of primordial wisdom and are seated.
With the sound of the great bliss of union,
Offerings are made to the nobles ones and others’ benefit accomplished.
They transform into the resultant herukas,
Mahottara Mighty Skull-Garlanded Vajra— 10
Dark blue in colour, with three heads, six hands,
And four legs in champion’s stance,
Trampling on the heads of the four gyalgong demons. 11
His right face is white, stern and laughing.
His left is red and terrifying, with fangs bared,
And his central face is blue with a wrathful and majestic expression.
The supreme forms of the five families are complete on his crown.
A vajra-garuḍa soars above his head.
He has nine eyes, his tongue curls, and he bares his fangs.
His first right hand holds a vajra,
The middle a khaṭvāṅga and the last hand holds fire.
His first left hand holds a red skull-cup, 12
The middle a plough, and the last
An iron scorpion with nine heads.
All the charnel ground accoutrements are complete.
He is in union with the supreme consort Sky-Faced Lady— 13 Samantabhadrā.
Her right hand embraces him and holds a khaṭvāṅga,
Her left offers a red skull-cup of desire filled with blood.
Her body is blue and bedecked with ornaments.
Amidst a blazing expanse of apocalyptic fire,
They remain in the great bliss of the four joys.
From the point of union of the Awesome One and consort
Dark blue hūṃ syllables radiate
To the spokes in the four cardinal and four intermediate directions
And generate the herukas with their consorts and sons.
hūṃ hūṃ hūṃ hūṃ hūṃ hūṃ hūṃ hūṃ
Through the resounding of the great hūṃ mantra
The maṇḍala of wrathful kings is spontaneously present.
Within the expanse blazing like apocalyptic fire,
Naturally arising, primordial wisdom appears as the gathering of wrathful ones.
In the East is Vajra-Heruka, 14 blue in colour.
His right hand holds a vajra, his left a skull-cup filled with blood.
He is in union with Vajra-Krodhiśvarī.
In the south is Mañjuśrī-Yamāntaka, yellow in colour.
His right hand holds a club, his left hand in the threatening mudrā.
His consort is the black devourer Vetālī.
In the West is mighty Hayagrīva, red in colour.
His right hand holds a sword, his left a lotus.
His consort is the wrathful queen Splendid Lotus.
In the North is Vajrakīla, green in colour.
His two hands brandish a dagger.
His awesome consort is Dīptacakrā.
In the south-east is Unsurpassable Heruka. 15
Dark blue in colour, he holds a garuḍa and corpse-mace.
His great consort is Supreme Peace and Bliss.
His retinue are the Five Mothers 16 and others.
In the south-west is Vajra-Vidyādhara, white in colour.
His right hand holds a skull-mace, his left a bell.
His consort is Vajrayoginī, enjoying great bliss.
In the north-west is Tamer of the Arrogant, blue in colour. 17
His right hand holds a hammer, his left a short spear.
His consort is Universal Tamer of the Three Realms of Existence.
In the north-east is Mighty Black One. 18
His right hand holds an iron hook, his left a snake-lasso.
His consort is Lady of the Five Elements.
She raises the form realm aloft and suppresses the desire realm.
All of them possess a retinue of the four families.
With their feet they trample upon the great male and female gods. 19
To symbolize unchanging reality, the female deities are blue.
They hold a curved knife and skull-cup, and embrace their male consorts.
On the outside are the gatekeepers of the four families.
They hold, respectively, an iron hook, lasso, iron shackles and bell.
These nine groups of maṇḍala deities,
All seven hundred and twenty-five,
Arise like rays from the sun.
The colour of their bodies, implements and ornaments are all distinct,
Yet clearly visualized as the great completeness.
Hūṃ. The gathering of Awesome Ones arises from oneself.
In order to perfect power and strength,
Bless my ordinary body, speech and mind into the enlightened body, speech and mind,
And grant the empowerment of the five primordial wisdoms.
oṃ āḥ hūṃ
oṃ hūṃ svā hrīḥ āḥ
Through your intention and the great display of light at your heart
All the thus-gone ones of the ten directions fill the sky. The wheel of the maṇḍala—vajra-samājaḥ!
Hūṃ. From the Unsurpassed, the space of reality, the pure realm of great bliss,
Arises the spontaneously present display, the dance of the nine expanses of wisdom. 20
Infinite peaceful and wrathful deities, Eight Awesome Herukas— 21
In order to tame the wicked, please come to this place!
ehy ehi jaḥ hūṃ baṃ hoḥ
samaya hrīṃ hrīṃ jaḥ jaḥ
Hūṃ. Impure appearances arise as the infinite purity of
The wheel of the palace and the deities. 22
In the supreme realm of joy emanated from samādhi,
May the indivisible nature of the samaya and wisdom deities remain firmly!
samayāveśaya tiṣṭha lhan
Hūṃ. In the self-existent, naturally arisen, emanated maṇḍala,
Dualistic thoughts of good and bad are utterly pure.
Yet still, within the dharmakāya of natural awareness, I display the symbolic homage,
And free from adopting and abandoning, I prostrate!
atipu hoḥ
nama yāmiḥ
Hūṃ. The unsurpassable, supreme, authentic offerings
Manifest from the five wisdoms in the form of light rays,
Adorned with the five sensual delights.
In accord with your samaya, accept them as you please.
mahā-sukha pūja hoḥ | mahā-jñāna te te hūṃ | tena te te hūṃ
oṃ śrī-vajra-saparivāra dhūpe hūṃ | puṣpe trāṃ | āloke hrīḥ | gandhe hoḥ | naivedye āḥ | śabda hūṃ | sarvapūjā samaya hoḥ
hala pañca-pūja hoḥ
oṃ āḥ hūṃ sarva-pañcāmṛta hūṃ hrīḥ ṭhaḥ | mahā-baliṅte khāhi | mahā-rakta khāhi | mahā-vajrāmṛta-jagad pūja hoḥ
jaḥ hūṃ baṃ hoḥ | tana-gana pūja hoḥ
Hūṃ. Your form of an ugly rākṣasa is captivating and heroic,
Your vajra laughter is menacing and you make ferocious and stern sounds,
Your supremely peaceful mind is compassionate and awesome;
With your nine demeanours you suppress the three realms—you I praise!
Reality is singular, yet its radiance is the nine expanses of wisdom. 23
According to the capacity of students, you appear joyful, desirous or angry.
Your form is a magical display that blazes unbearably—
To the seven hundred and twenty-five deities of the maṇḍala, I pay homage!
I am Mahottara in union with the consort.
In my excellent heart, amidst an expanse of latticed light,
Upon a sun and moon—the union of clarity and emptiness—
Is Samantabhadra in union with his consort.
He sits in cross-legged vajra posture in meditative equipoise.
At his heart is the life-force of all the bliss-gone ones—
The three syllables, assembled one above the other, clearly visualised.
They radiate light, and I consider that all of appearance and existence
Awakens as the five primordial wisdoms.
oṃ āḥ hūṃ
In the heart of the wisdom king and queen in union, 24
Upon a lotus, sun and moon,
Is a golden vajra with nine prongs.
In the central prong is the concentration-being 25 hūṃ.
In the eight prongs, beginning with the front, are
The first, the six cities, and the last. 26
All of them are turned toward the hūṃ in the centre,
Extremely subtle and blazing with light rays.
oṃ guru-śrī-vajra-yakṣa-krodha-citta hūṃ
From the seed syllables of the mantra,
A string of mantra-garlands emanates.
It exits the male deity and enters the mouth of the female deity.
It flows through the form of her body and from her secret space,
Entering the path of the vajra-jewel.
It dissolves into the life-force hūṃ at the heart and revolves.
The light rays of great bliss
Make offerings to the victorious ones and gather all the jewel-like accomplishments,
Which then dissolve into me.
Once again light radiates, purifying the karma and emotions of beings.
The whole assembly of deities resounds with the all-embodying mantra, 27
With a roaring and rumbling sound.
Five-coloured light fills the three thousand-fold cosmos, through which
Diseases and evil spirits are pacified, lifespan and glory increase,
The three realms are magnetized, and beings liberated.
Consider that you attain the four levels of an awareness-holder.
oṁ vajra-caṇḍa-sarva-ḍuṣtāntaka hana daha paca hūṁ phaṭ
Hūṃ. From the heart of Awesome One radiate raṃ, yaṃ, and khaṃ,
Purifying grasping at the feast-offerings as real.
Within the kapāla of the great bliss of appearance and existence,
The essences become the samaya substances of the five families.
oṃ āḥ hūṃ ha ho hrīḥ
Hūṃ. From the Unsurpassed, the palace of basic space,
The saṃbhogakāya endowed with the seven branches
And the pure realm of the nature-nirmāṇakāya, 32
We invite the host of deities of the Awesome One’s maṇḍala.
All who reside in the sacred lands and the eight charnel grounds—
Heroes 33 and ḍākinīs,
Energetic Spirits, 34 yogis, and protectors of the realms—
I invite you to this feast-gathering, please come!
guru-deva-ḍākinī-dharmapāla-samaya jaḥ
Hūṃ. The samaya of the buddhas is unsurpassed.
I offer marvellous outer, inner and secret offerings
To the deities of the maṇḍala!
Having accepted them, grant us empowerment and accomplishments!
gaṇacakra-pūja hoḥ
Hūṃ. In all my lives without beginning,
Since I have entered the Great Vehicle of Secret Mantra,
Whatever impairments of the root and branch samayas I have committed,
Through offering this feast-offering of sensory delights, I confess them all.
oṃ herukasatvasamayam anupālaya herukasatva tvenopatiṣṭha ḍṛḍho me bhava sutoṣyo me bhava supoṣyo me bhava anurakto me bhava sarvasiddhiṃ me prayaccha sarvakarmasu ca me cittaṃ śreyaḥ kuru hūṃ ha ha ha ha hoḥ bhagavan sarvatathāgataheruka mā me muñca heruka bhava mahāsamayasattva āḥ
Hūṃ! Ignorance, karma, negative emotions and dualistic grasping,
And their creation, all these ego-clinging rudras—
Summon them into this form: ṇṛ ṭṛ jaḥ. 35
Their consciousness liberated into the expanse of all-pervading space—phaṭ!
And their body enjoyed as the feast-offering.
māṃsa rakta citta gorocanā vasutāḥ keṃ nirti 36 tana cakra pūja kha kha khāhi khāhi
oṃ akāro mukhaṃ sarvadharmānām ādyanutpannatvāt oṃ āḥ hūṃ phaṭ svāhā
Hūṃ. From the natural peace of utter purity,
The victorious Awesome Lord emanates.
From the play of method and insight, the secret moon, 38
Arise the protectors of the maṇḍala’s perimeter.
Accept the leftovers and protect the teachings!
Carry out the activity entrusted to you!
In the city of the Awesome Herukas,
Through offering this gaṇacakra,
May I and all beings, without exception,
Attain realization in one maṇḍala!
Hūṃ. Guru, source of all blessings,
To grant us accomplishment you manifest as the display of the Awesome Deities.
From the maṇḍala of awakened mind—the three doors of liberation—
The actual bodhicitta, the truly existent nature:
Grant me the supreme accomplishment of Mahāmudrā:
The ten grounds and five paths; the ten empowerments, outer and inner;
The four awareness-holder levels; the five kāyas and five wisdoms;
The eight accomplishments, and the four enlightened activities.
Saṃsāra’s nature is the two adventitious stains
That lie dormant in the all-ground consciousness—
Purify them! Grant us right here, right now,
The sacred accomplishment, supreme in every way!
oṃ guru-śrī-vajra-yakṣa-krodha-citta hūṃ
dharmakāya | saṃbhogakāya | nirmākāya citta siddhi phala hūṃ
Hūṃ. The pure forms of the world and inhabitants
Are the appearances of the palace and deities,
The support and supported—
All dissolve into the main deities. They dissolve into hūṃ.
From the shabkyu 39 up to the nāda,
Everything dissolves in stages into the original nature—āḥ.
Once again, in post-meditation, awareness-bodhicitta
Arises as the Heruka of the fundamental nature.
In the form of the single mudrā, his three places
Are marked by syllables, giving protection from conceptuality.
vajra-rakṣa hūṃ
Hūṃ. With appearance, sound and awareness merging in the state of the three maṇḍalas 40
The practice of merit and wisdom of the two phases is perfected. 41
I dedicate it to the nirvāṇa of non-abiding wisdom—
May everyone attain the level of the Awesome One!