Liberation Through Training in the Realm of Amitābha, Boundless Light 1
Namo. To the guru and yidam, Amitābha,
And to the Three Jewels and the ocean of victors,
I go, along with every being, devotedly, one-pointedly,
For refuge until awakening.
Hoḥ. So that all beings, my own mothers,
May attain the state of enlightenment,
I will harm none, practice virtue, and benefit others,
Thus I will always arouse bodhicitta.
May all sentient beings enjoy happiness!
May they be freed from every kind of suffering!
May they never be apart from happiness!
May they realize the equality of all phenomena!
oṃ svabhāva-śuddhāḥ sarva-dharmāḥ svabhāva-śuddho ’ham
From the state of emptiness, the entire land
Becomes the Blissful pure-realm, Sukhāvatī,
An amazing, inconceivable sight.
At its centre, upon a lotus and moon disc,
I am Noble Avalokiteśvara,
Reddish white, radiant, with palms joined together.
He has the form of a youthful bodhisattva,
And sits in bodhisattva posture.
In front, upon a beautiful jewel throne
Held up by peacocks is a lotus and moon disc,
Is the seat of protector Boundless Light, who is red in colour;
His hands in equipoise hold an alms bowl of amṛta.
Ablaze with the majestic marks and signs, he wears the Dharma robes.
Cool in the pleasant shade
Of a huge, spreading bodhi tree,
He sits amid infinite, streaming light rays,
In vajra posture.
To his right is noble Avalokiteśvara,
To his left is mighty Vajrapāṇi,
In front is a host of noble ones,
And above and below, in all directions,
Are buddhas, bodhisattvas,
And world protectors in inconceivable array.
All of them resound with the Dharma
And relish the amṛta of the supreme vehicle,
All as vivid as if present in person.
Oṃ āḥ hūṃ. On my own and all beings’ behalf,
All our bodies, possessions, and sources of merit,
The four continents, Mount Meru, the sun and the moon,
The unimaginable delights of gods and humans:
Continuously manifesting all of these
As Samantabhadra cloud-banks of offerings,
To the guardian guru Boundless Light,
To the deities of the Three Jewels and the Three Roots,
And to the ocean of Dharma protectors and wealth deities—
I offer always with devotion!
May our great accumulation of merit be perfected
And the light of wisdom illuminate the world!
oṃ guru amitābha-sarva-tathāgata-saparivāra-ratna-maṇḍala-pūjā megha āḥ hūṃ
Light rays stream out from my heart centre,
Invoking the wisdom hearts of the buddhas and their retinues.
Their light rays of compassion
Purify my own and others’ obscurations.
Thus we become fit vessels for both the cause and result
Of taking birth in the Blissful pure realm.
oṃ padma-dhari hūṃ
namo ratna trayāya | namo bhagavate | amitabhāya | tathāgatāya | arhate | samyaksaṃbuddhāya | teyathā | oṃ amite | amitodbhava | amita saṃbhava | amita vikrānte | amita gamini | gagaṇa-kīrti kare | sarvakleśa kṣayaṃ kari svāhā || 4
Before me is Amitābha.
In his heart centre is a hrīḥ . From it, a second hrīḥ appears.
It passes through his right nostril,
Enters through my left, and travels down to my heart centre.
It radiates boundless light rays
Which purify my misdeeds, obscurations, and habits.
Then, together with my exhalation of breath,
It emerges from my right nostril,
Enters the Blessed One through his left nostril, and dissolves back into hrīḥ .
The victor’s wisdom mind and my own mind are indivisible.
I let be, within this thought-free state.
Guru Amitābha
Dissolves into me with great joy.
And I myself take on the Buddha’s form.