Guru Yoga of Lord Marpa Lotsāwa
Ah. My own perception, in all its purity, is the realm of Akaniṣṭha,
Spontaneously perfect in arrangement; there, in the sky before me,
Upon a lion throne, lotus, sun and moon,
Is my root guru in the form of Lhodrakpa,
The teacher Marpa Chökyi Lodrö.
He is reddish brown and has a wrathful expression.
His two hands cover his knees and touch the earth.
He wears upāsaka dress and his two eyes gaze intently.
His sits with his two legs crossed in vajra posture.
Within his body all the tantric maṇḍalas are complete.
His three centres are marked with three syllables,
From which light radiates out to invite the wisdom beings.
Nirmāṇakāya emanation of glorious Hevajra,
Lord Marpa Chökyi Lodrö,
With one-pointed mind and in devotion, I pray to you:
Grant me supreme and ordinary attainments, I pray.
Shower down the blessings of your vajra wisdom.
Inspire me to realize the genuine nature of my mind.
With great courage, you travelled many times to the noble land.
With great wisdom, you realized the nature of all phenomena.
With great diligence, you raised the victory banner of accomplishment.
Great lotsāwa, at your feet I pray.
oṃ āḥ guru dharmamati sarva siddhi phala hūṃ
All mother sentient beings as infinite as space pray to the guru, the precious buddha,
Pray to the guru, the all-pervasive dharmakāya.
Pray to the guru, the saṃbhogakāya of great bliss.
Pray to the guru, the compassionate nirmāṇakāya.
Grant your blessings, I pray, so that I and all sentient beings may turn our minds towards the Dharma.
Grant your blessings, I pray, so that Dharma may progress along the path.
Grant your blessings, I pray, so that the path may eliminate confusion.
Grant your blessings, I pray, so that confusion may dawn as wisdom.
From the three syllables at the guru's three centres,
Rays of light, buddha forms, mantra garlands,
And hand implements emanate in boundless number.
Through dissolving gradually and all at once
Obscurations are purified, empowerments and siddhis obtained.
The guru then melts into light and dissolves into me.
And in a state unspoilt by thoughts of past, present or future,
Mahāmudrā, the genuine nature of my own awareness,
I settle naturally, without alteration or contrivance.
In all my lives, may I never be separated from the perfect lama,
And having benefited fully from the splendour of the Dharma,
May I perfect the qualities of the five paths and ten bhūmis,
And swiftly attain the sublime level of Vajradhara!