Gyang Lu – A Song of Calling the Guru from Afar
Beloved master, precious one, father of mine,
You are forever one with all the buddhas,
Now show your kindness and love to your devoted child,
You who took birth intentionally
In the form of a supreme bodhisattva—
The lord of all victorious buddhas, Longchenpa:
Father of mine, your blessings are not without power,
Yet my mind is in the grip of tempestuous disturbing emotions,
And as our negative actions and karma grow ever stronger,
All that awaits the sentient beings of this degenerate age
Is to fall into the depths of the lower realms:
Longchenpa, father of mine, look on me with all your compassion!
Whatever I’ve done in the past has been devoid of any meaning,
The Dharma I have practised till now has been riddled with the eight worldly preoccupations,
Never did it occur to me, even once, to follow the genuine path.
Now there is no-one I can rely on, save you:
Longchenpa, father of mine, look on me with all your compassion!
While the Lord of Death hounds me from behind,
Days, months, years—time draws me onwards from in front,
And in between, seduced and enthralled by distraction,
The danger is that, without ever even realizing it, I’ll be completely deceived:
Longchenpa, father of mine, look on me with all your compassion!
In the prime of youth, the mind is immature.
When we come of age, we’re distracted by busyness.
Once old age and infirmity set in,
We may think about the real Dharma, but then it’s far too late:
Longchenpa, father of mine, look on me with all your compassion!
I wish to stay on here, but it’s out of my control,
I wish to bring my possessions, but I cannot take a thing,
I wish for the comfort of companions, but I have to go alone;
Sooner or later, I will go on to the next world, that’s for sure:
Longchenpa, father of mine, look on me with all your compassion!
Propelled by the habitual patterns of this life,
What will it be like, my journey through the bardo realm?
It will be as hard for me to control
As the dreams I had in my sleep last night:
Longchenpa, father of mine, look on me with all your compassion!
All things in saṃsāra and nirvāṇa are devoid of any substance,
This body will not last, and has no reality of its own.
Like the rainbow that arches across the sky,
It is taken as real, but fades into thin air:
Longchenpa, father of mine, look on me with all your compassion!
Towards the buddhas, I have not the slightest devotion,
For sentient beings, only the meagrest compassion,
The red robes I wear are only a show, and
My shaven head means next to nothing:
Longchenpa, father of mine, look on me with all your compassion!
So many teachings I’ve heard, but I’ve not yet got the crucial point,
However artful at talking, my basic being is still untamed,
I put myself into retreat, but I’m craving for home and family,
I’ve got my eyes in the right gaze, but lack any real experience:
Longchenpa, father of mine, look on me with all your compassion!
By marking even the smallest failing in others,
But failing ever to notice how rotten I am inside,
By constantly fooling and misleading other people,
Aren’t I just purchasing my own misery?
Longchenpa, father of mine, look on me with all your compassion!
How can ignoring that the teachings of all the buddhas
Are there to benefit my mind,
And studying instead for the sake of profit or renown,
Ever lead me along the path of liberation?
Longchenpa, father of mine, look on me with all your compassion!
Passing for a practitioner, my practice is only worldly achievement,
Taking offerings from all and sundry,
Careless and easy-going, I watch my life go by.
Yet when I breathe out for the very last time, what’ll happen to me then?
Longchenpa, father of mine, look on me with all your compassion!
Because of all this, I feel my heart breaking in sorrow,
And I pray now to all the buddhas,
For the beings of this degenerate age, and
Especially those like me, who just bear the likeness of practitioners:
Longchenpa, father of mine, look on us with all your compassion!
This child has no-one to rely on now but you.
Idling my time away—happy, suffering, whatever happens to me, I am in your hands.
Lord, in the palace of the space of immaculate great bliss,
May I remain one with you, always and forever!