The Attainment of Immortality A Prayer for the Long Life of Sogyal Rinpoche
Oṃ svasti! Lord of Sages, teacher in this world of sorrow,
The three deities of immortality and limitless life,
Padmākara, the second Buddha—
May all the deities of long life grant all that is excellent and good!
Among the Tibetan disciples of Padmākara of Orgyen
The foremost was Dorjé Dudjom. The magical embodiment of his wisdom,
Who also took rebirth consciously as Rigdzin Gödem,
Was the treasure revealer Lerab Lingpa: may he protect us at all times!
In the perceptions of those of us who have devotion, and whose karmic connections have awakened, this emanation of Lerab Lingpa
Appears, just as the moon reflects in countless vessels of water.
The emissary of Padmākara, he has come to guide those in distant lands,
I pray that his life is firm and strong—that he remain with us always and forever!
His form is an expression of the merit of us fortunate ones whom he is to guide
He upholds the teachings of the victorious buddhas in general, and those of the Early Translation school in particular,
His form is entirely pleasing, a magical display of all marvellous signs.
I pray that he live forever, in the unchanging, indestructible sphere of being!
His speech, born of his million-fold merit,
Is the melodious utterance that is good in the beginning, middle and end,
I pray that he live long, in order to proclaim unceasingly and meaningfully,
The sound of the Dharma of the Supreme Vehicle, the excellent speech of the buddhas!
Free from ordinary concepts, his inexhaustible wisdom
Is the unwavering samādhi of clear light—the genuine and unconditioned nature of being.
His vajra mind is the unity of space and rigpa, pervading everywhere.
I pray that he live long, in continuous and everlasting stability!
His enlightened intent, like the newly risen sun,
Shines on the lotus grove of the teachings and the beings to be nurtured.
May this serve as the cause for us all to enjoy the splendid banquet
Of his enlightened activity, which shines everywhere, throughout the reaches of space!
With this prayer of ours, may everything which we aspire and hope for,
Through the power of truth of the interdependence of phenomena and their true nature,
And through the activity of the guardian deities, endowed with the eye of wisdom,
Be completely accomplished, amid all splendour and auspiciousness!