The Honey of Devotion A Prayer to the Garland of Glorious Karmapa Incarnations
You extended the activity of all the victorious ones,
The three buddha families in a single embodiment,
Karmapa Düsum Khyenpa, lord among men,
Guide for all the world, to you I pray.
You applied the wisdom seal to appearance and existence,
As the foremost adept of the unity of great bliss,
Lord of yogis, heruka—
Chökyi Lama, to you I pray.
Lord Avalokiteśvara in human form,
With the wisdom of Sthiracakra, 1
Supreme sovereign of oceanic secrets 2 —
Rangjung Dorje, to you I pray.
Through the great awakening activity of a bodhisattva,
You gained the secure armour of courage,
Supreme friend who strives to benefit others—
Rolpé Dorje, to you I pray.
Crown jewel of all existence and peace, including the heavens,
Who brings the animate and inanimate within the great seal, Mahāmudrā,
Master of all the teachings of the Land of Snows—
Deshin Shekpa, to you I pray.
Utterly resplendent in your extensive ethical restraint,
You never part from supreme meditative absorption,
And maintain the wonder of profound intelligence—
Tongwa Dönden, to you I pray.
You gained the capacity to nurture and eliminate,
Most excellent among the learned and venerable,
Great treasury of wisdom, power and love—
Chödrak Gyatso, to you I pray.
Possessor of an indomitable wisdom mind,
Treasury of infinite profound pith instructions,
Supreme dharma sovereign of the three realms—
Mikyö Dorje, to you I pray.
Well established on the noble stages,
Bestrewn with jewels of scripture and reasoning,
And fearless in explanation, debate and composition—
Wangchuk Dorje, to you I pray.
Always seeing the illusion of the eight worldly concerns,
Foremost of adepts in the discipline of equal taste,
Cared for and guided by the supreme deity—
Chöying Dorje, to you I pray.
Binding the karmic winds in the space of dhūti , 3
You brought all conceptual thought to exhaustion,
In the kāya of the seal of union beyond transference—
Yeshe Dorje, to you I pray.
Treasury of billionfold qualities of relinquishment and realization,
Great source of sūtra and mantra dharma systems,
Guiding the fortunate to the four kāyas,
Changchub Dorje, to you I pray.
Forever striving for the sake of sentient beings,
Having perfected study, reflection and meditation,
Lord of Dharma, you spontaneously accomplish twofold benefit—
Tekchok Dorje, to you I pray.
Cakrasaṃvara in human form,
Embodiment of the all-pervading Vajrasattva,
Sovereign of the maṇḍala of all buddha families—
Khakhyab Dorje, to you I pray.
For as long as existence itself continues,
May these most exalted emanations appear,
And fill the whole of this wealth-bearing world
With an abundance of excellent, wondrous advice.
May I too be guided by, and never apart from,
This protector from now until enlightenment,
And when I ultimately attain perfect awakening
May I be inseparable from the conqueror Lion’s Roar. 4