Yumka Fulfilment Practice
namaḥ sarvatathāgatebhyo viśva-mukhebhyaḥ sarvathā-khaṃ udgate spharaṇa imaṃ gagana-khaṃ svāhā
vajra-spharaṇa khaṃ
Hoḥ!  All dualistic phenomena dissolve into the original state,
And primordially pure awareness enters the womb of all-encompassing space. 1
The union of all-encompassing space and awareness is the cloud of the illusory net. 2
All that appears and exists arises as the mudrā of great offering.
Within the pure wisdom realm of the Lotus Net, endowed with the five qualities,
The all-pervading expanse without centre or periphery, are arranged:
Offering water for drinking and washing, made of pure ambrosia, 3
Vajra flowers, incense, lights, scented water,
Food and music—daily offerings of excellent quality;
Palaces and mountains of heaped jewels,
Forests of wish-fulfilling trees and an abundance of uncultivated crops,
The seven emblems of royalty and the seven secondary emblems,
Rains of goodness made from the eight auspicious substances and symbols;
Hosts of youthful goddesses with lotus-like hands, eyes wide open like uṭpala flowers,
Stunningly perfect looks and harmonious voices.
Hold delightful fragrances, delicious foods, and exquisite silk clothing that represents the sense of touch;
The supreme medicine, the ‘great red’ rakta, and bali
That possess the nature of the moon and sun, the union of skilful means and wisdom; 4
Hosts of consorts of the Lotus family who are expert in the sixty-four arts
And who grant supreme sensual pleasure, and so on—
Every offering substance of this great abundance
Contains hundred of thousands of expressions of great bliss.
These infinite offering clouds, like Samantabhadra’s, adorn the sky;
For those with pure perception, they appear instantaneously and vividly. By making these offerings,
Great mistress who presides over infinite maṇḍalas of union,
Vajravārāhī, mother of space, may your wishes be fulfilled!
Universal monarch of the ḍākinīs of the three abodes,
Queen of Bliss, Lotus Yoginī, may your wishes be fulfilled!
Source of blessings and foremost of the gurus of the instruction lineage,
Lord of the family, Lotus Skull Garland, 5 may your wishes be fulfilled!
The outer, inner and other dharmas of the vajra queen 6
Are of equal taste in the immaculate, all-encompassing space of primordial wisdom. 7
Merely by recollecting you, you purify the aggregates, elements and sense sources into their final, perfect state.
Hundred Peaceful and Wrathful Deities, may your wishes be fulfilled!
In particular, you who seal the channels, wind-energies and vital essences in the luminous expanse,
Maṇḍalas of the three wheels, may your wishes be fulfilled!
Mistresses of the mind wheel’s sky dwellers, Caṇḍākṣī and others,
Together with your heroes 8 of wisdom, may your wishes be fulfilled!
Mistresses of the speech wheel’s earth dwellers, Airāvatī and others,
Together with your heroes of wisdom, may your wishes be fulfilled!
Mistresses of the body wheel’s subterranean dwellers, Cakravarmiṇī and others,
Together with your heroes of wisdom, may your wishes be fulfilled!
Your emanations as numerous as the atoms of Mount Meru,
Throngs of glorious ḍākinīs, may your wishes be fulfilled!
Hosts of yoginīs of the maṇḍalas of the vajra body and external places,
May you be pleased and your wishes be fulfilled! As a result of these prayers
May the darkness of impairments and breakages that displease you be dispelled,
May my mind be illuminated by the light of primordial wisdom,
And by the power of experiencing all appearances and objects as the enjoyment of the feast,
May the realization of bliss and emptiness blaze forth,
And may accomplishments such as the three gatherings 9 and the three blazings, 10
Increase like a summer lake!
Finally, may the dregs of the aggregates and elements be purified in all-encompassing space,
And ripen into the indestructible, pure distillate of quintessential, primordial wisdom! 11
May the radiance of compassion shine in the sky of emptiness,
And may we swiftly attain the state of union of Vajravārāhī!
Furthermore, may the study and practice of the Victorious One’s non-sectarian teachings flourish,
May the holders of those teachings live long, and their enlightened activities spread everywhere in all directions,
May the virtuous signs of freedom and happiness for all beings increase,
And may all be auspicious so that all beings, together, attain the supreme accomplishment!