Prayer to the Supreme Lord of Siddhas Tsultrim Zangpo
oṃ maṇi padme hūṃ
Oṃ signifies the nature possessing the five wisdoms.
The very embodiment of the five buddha kāyas—
To the guru and supreme adept, Tsultrim Zangpo,
I offer heartfelt prayer: inspire me with your blessings.
Purify my bad karma, misdeeds and obscurations.
Ma signifies maternal compassion for all beings,
Lord Avalokiteśvara’s love, like that for an only child.
To the great compassionate one, Tsultrim Zangpo,
I offer heartfelt prayer: inspire me with your blessings.
Lead us out of the ocean of suffering in the six realms.
Ṇi represents the equality of saṃsāra and nirvāṇa.
To the lord of yogins, Tsultrim Zangpo,
Who perceives the single nature of all diverse phenomena,
I offer heartfelt prayer: inspire me with your blessings.
Help me to realize the equalness of all dharmas.
Pad represents non-attachment, the unsullied.
To the all-knowing, all-seeing Tsultrim Zangpo,
Who understands all things precisely without error,
I offer heartfelt prayer: inspire me with your blessings.
Help me to actualize my own self-knowing awareness.
Me represents spontaneous and effortless activity,
Fulfilling the hopes and wishes of beings.
To Tsultrim Zangpo, font of all wants and requirements,
I offer heartfelt prayer: inspire me with your blessings.
Spontaneously fulfil the hopes and wishes of disciples.
Hūṃ is primordial wisdom, free from dualistic perception,
Unobscured, and as deep as the domain of space itself.
To Tsultrim Zangpo, who sees things just as they are,
I offer heartfelt prayer: inspire me with your blessings.
Transfer the blessings of your wisdom realization.
From this moment on, throughout all my lives to come,
May Tsultrim Zangpo, supreme lord of siddhas,
Guide me, spontaneously fulfil my own and others’ aims,
And bless me, that I may master love and compassion.
May the supreme bodhicitta of cherishing others above myself
Swiftly arise within my mindstream,
And may I never tire of working for others’ sake.
Inspire me, O protector, to become your equal.
Bless me to bring benefit to beings, as extensively as space.