The Refined Essence of Compassion A Daily Sādhana for the Natural Liberation of Suffering, the Secret Practice of the Great Compassionate One Lineage Prayer Taking Refuge and Arousing Bodhicitta Confession of Mistakes Dissolution Dedication and Aspiration Verses of Auspiciousness
Namo lokeśvarāya!
The blessing of the wisdom mind of Padma Heruka
Passed from Indradevī and Nāgārjuna,
Down to Padmākara:
Masters of the lineage of wisdom speech,
Of the past, present and future―to you I pray!
To the Lotus-born Guru of Uḍḍiyāna, I pray!
Namo. In this never-ending cycle of saṃsāra, which is by nature suffering,
I and all other beings helplessly roam about.
From the depths of my heart and with utmost longing
I take refuge in the embodiment of the Three Jewels—the supremely noble Lord of Compassion.
Hoḥ. All sentient beings of the six classes—my very own parents—the objects of my compassion,
Do not recognize the nature of their minds and act out of delusion.
So that, with immeasurable compassion, I might set beings on the path to awakening,
I generate the supreme mind of bodhicitta, relative—in aspiration and action—and absolute.
Hrīḥ. From within the state without ground or basis, where all phenomena are free of conceptual reference,
The union of basic space and awareness arises as the realm of great purity.
My entire perception, spontaneously perfect, is the Potala Mountain
With symbols, signs and characteristics perfect within the maṇḍala. In its centre
Is a multi-coloured, thousand-petalled lotus, and sun and moon disk seats.
From hrīḥ, I arise as the Noble One of divine compassion,
In the form of Lord Avalokiteśvara ‘Natural Liberation of Suffering’,
With one face and four hands and standing in a posture of equanimity.
The palms of my principal hands are joined at my heart
And the remaining two hold a mālā and lotus.
I am in saṃbhogakāya form adorned with silks and jewels.
Above my head is Amitābha, the lord of the family.
In the four cardinal directions and each seated on a four-petalled lotus are:
Venerable Tārā, her body white in colour, in the East,
Mārīcī, yellow in colour, in the South,
Kurukullā, ruby red in colour, in the West,
And Vasudhārā, green in colour, in the North.
Their ornaments and garments are perfectly complete, each in their own respective style.
At the four doors are the four mighty ones in colours that match their particular activities.
All are in striding posture, majestic and terrifying, and hold hooked knives and skull-cups.
With wrathful ornaments, they are poised imposingly amidst masses of flame.
In between, buddhas, bodhisattvas, vidyādharas,
Virile ones 3 , ḍākinīs and samaya-bound Dharma protectors gather like clouds.
They arise as appearance and emptiness, vividly present in unobscured space.
The deities' three centres are marked with the three seed syllables,
From which light streams out to the natural, supreme abodes,
And especially to the nirmāṇakāya pure land of Potala,
Twenty-four sacred places and eight charnel grounds,
Inviting the wisdom deities. Vajra-samājaḥ!
oṃ lokeśvara-guru-deva-ḍākinī-sarva-samaya jaḥ jaḥ
vajra-samaya tiṣṭha hoḥ
namo puruṣāya hoḥ
oṃ vajra-arghaṃ pādyaṃ puṣpe dhūpe āloke gandhe naivedye śabda rūpa śabda gandha rāsa sparśa mahā sarva pūja khāhi
sarva-pañca rakta baliṅta mahā-sukha dharmadhātu pūjā hoḥ
Hrīḥ. You arise from the dharmadhātu palace of sheer simplicity
With mastery over the spontaneously present saṃbhogakāya―
Avalokiteśvara, great treasure of immeasurable compassion,
In your form as Natural Liberation of Suffering: to you I offer praise and homage.
I am the Great Compassionate One. In my heart
In the middle of a vast casket of joined sun and moon,
Upon a moon disc is the white life-force syllable hrīḥ,
Encircled by the seven syllables of the mantra.
Light radiates out to all the buddhas and bodhisattvas,
Especially the Great Compassionate One, and invokes their wisdom minds.
Light streams out to all six classes of beings, purifying their karma and destructive emotions.
The rays return and dissolve into me,
Through which I obtain accomplishments, ordinary and supreme.
oṃ maṇi padme hūṃ hrīḥ
[oṃ maṇi padme hūṃ hrīḥ] tāre ayur-jñāna tshe bhrūṃ nṛ ja svāhā
[oṃ maṇi padme hūṃ hrīḥ] ārya-mārīcyai māṃ svāhā
[oṃ maṇi padme hūṃ hrīḥ] kurukulle hrīṃ hrīṃ vaśaṃ kuruye svāhā
[oṃ maṇi padme hūṃ hrīḥ] mama vasudhāri svāhā
Hūṃ! In this maṇḍala of the Great Compassionate One,
If my offerings were incomplete, my practice inattentive,
Or my meditation drowsy, dull and lifeless—
Please forgive all such confusions and mistakes!
oṃ vajrasattva samayam anupālaya vajrasattva-tvenopa-tiṣṭha dṛḍho me bhava sutoṣyo me bhava supoṣyo me bhava anurakto me bhava sarva-siddhiṃ me prayaccha sarva-karma śuca me cittaṃ śreyaṅ-kuru hūṃ ha ha ha ha hoḥ bhagavān sarva-tathāgata-vajra mā me muñca vajrī-bhava mahā-samaya-sattva āḥ
Hoḥ. Like bubbles appearing on water,
The deities of the maṇḍala, created by myself,
Dissolve into the all-pervading space of primordial wisdom—vajra muḥ!
In the post-meditation, everything arises as the illusory body of the deity.
Hoḥ. All the roots of virtue accumulated in past, present and future—
I dedicate them to be the cause for realizing the primordial state of omniscience,
So that I and all those gathered here
All attain enlightenment together, in one maṇḍala!
Hoḥ. Through the blessing of the vidyādharas' lineage,
Through the truth of the Buddha, Dharma and Saṅgha,
And through the auspicious interdependence of the profound Secret Mantra:
May all be auspicious for pacifying the eight fears!
May all be auspicious for developing life and merit!
May all be auspicious for bringing perception under our control!
May all be auspicious for annihilating negative, misleading forces!
With all attachment to perception transformed and perfected as the form of the deity,
All sound purified into the great bliss of mantra,
All thoughts matured into the luminosity of dharmakāya—
May all be auspicious, so that we attain the translucent rainbow body!