The Summoning of Longevity from Chimé Pakmé Nyingtik, 'The Heart-Essence of the Sublime Lady of Immortality'
Hūṃ Hrīḥ! Out of the space of dharmadhātu, vast and all-pervasive,
The sambhogakāya of perfect enjoyment arises unobstructedly
And manifests, through compassion, as the hosts of deities.
Do not fail us: now is the time to fulfil your sacred pledge!
Deity who summons longevity, Uṣṇīṣayavijayā,
White and holding a long-life vase,
Send out your emanations to fill the billionfold universe!
With your glistening vajra hooks,
Summon the wisdom mind of all the buddhas,
Gather the vital essence of longevity from all that is animate and inanimate,
Collect it within your auspicious vases,
And dissolve it into the supreme substances that are the supports for long life. 1
From the lord of longevity Amitāyus and consort, together with their entourage,
Immortal Ārya Tārā, granter of every wish,
And the retinue of peaceful and wrathful attendants,
Unimaginable in their many billions:
From the coiling hair between their brows, and the vase at their throat,
The glorious eternal knot at their heart,
The utpala flower at their navel, deep and spiralling,
And the secret space of the great bliss of union—
Invoke the siddhis of unchanging body and unobstructed speech ,
Of primordial wisdom free from delusion, the enlightened mind of knowledge and love,
Of qualities that fulfil all hopes and wishes,
And of unimpeded enlightened activity .
Collect them within your auspicious vases,
And grant us supreme practitioners the four empowerments.
From the solid ground of earth and unshakeable mountains,
Long, winding rivers and ever-churning oceans,
Blazing fires and powerful winds,
And unbreakable, indestructible, all-pervading space,
Gather the quintessence of the elements, collect it within your vases,
And let it be absorbed inseparably into the bodies of practitioners.
Along with precious gems and medicines to cure all sickness,
The nectar of immortality and nutritious food,
From those with great merit, charisma and power
Among gods, nāgas, human beings and yakṣas,
Gather the merit and vitality of each and every one,
Collect it within your auspicious vases,
And carry out the activities that increase our lifespan and splendour.
In case harmful jungpo demons should steal our lives away,
Take care to gather all that has been scattered and declined.
Let the natural radiance of the five lights shine and shimmer,
Let endless rays and beams stream and flow,
Let countless spheres of light pulsate,
So that the nectar of immortality sparkles, gleams, blazes with light,
And fills the exquisite vase of the deathless body,
Spontaneously perfect and forever changeless.
The five poisons are purified into the five wisdoms;
Any weakening of the five inner elements is healed by the five outer elements;
The five lights, as they blaze, continue all that has been interrupted, 2
The five bindus straighten what is awry,
The five nectars mend whatever is split, 3
And the five indestructible vajra bodies are naturally perfected. 4
oṃ tāre tuttare ture hrīḥ bhrūṃ vajra jñāna āyuṣe svāhā