Descent of Blessings of the Eight Vidyādharas 1
All the primordial wisdom maṇḍalas awaken in the sky, filling it completely.
oṃ hūṃ a la la hoḥ | bhagavān samaya hoḥ | samaya sthaṃ
Hūṃ! At the beginning of this aeon—the dawn of existence—
When the heruka of the view of selflessness
Liberated the rudra of duality
The eight pure consciousnesses arose as charnel grounds.
The four parts of Rudra’s body became the four doors
Of the palace where the bliss-gone ones abide.
Bless the aggregates, elements and sense sources
As the essence of the three seats! 2
The name of the place is Jambudvīpa.
In the east 3 lies the charnel ground Cool Grove 4
Where Rudra’s heart is found.
The local protector has the face of an elephant, is white in colour and holds a knife and a skull-cup.
The directional guardian is Indra, holding a vajra.
The nāga king is Ananta, and he has serpent heads.
The river and clouds are white, and the charnel tree is yellow.
The great protectress is Gaurī.
From the stūpa Blissful Mound— 5
Hūṃkāra, vidyādhara who accomplished Yangdak,
Shower down your blessing!
Hūṃ! In the south lies the charnel ground Cuckoo Grove
Where Rudra’s right hand is found.
The local protector has the face of a buffalo and holds a serpent lasso.
The directional guardian is Yama, holding a club.
The nāga king is Takṣaka. The clouds are grey,
The river turbulent, and the charnel tree is green.
The great protectress is Caurī.
From the stūpa Blazing Jewel—
Mañjuśrīmitra, vidyādhara who accomplished Mañjuśrī,
Shower down your blessing!
Hūṃ! In the west lies the charnel ground Lotus Mound
Where Rudra’s phallus is found.
The local protector Laliha has the face of a sea-monster.
The directional guardian is the water god Varuṇa, and the nāga king is Saṅkhapāla.
Billowing clouds rumble with thunder, and the river and the charnel tree are red.
The great protectress is Pramohā.
From the stūpa Majestic Blazing Light—
Nāgārjuna-garbha, vidyādhara who accomplished Hayagrīva,
Shower down your blessing!
Hūṃ! In the north lies the charnel ground Laṅka Mound
Where Rudra’s left leg is found.
The local protector has the face of a horse, is grey in colour and is accompanied by his consort.
The directional guardian is a yakṣa, the nāga king is Karkoṭaka.
The river is raging; the green clouds rumble.
The beautiful charnel tree is called Asutana.
The great protectress is Vetālī.
From the stūpa Naturally Arisen Great Bliss—
Prabhāhasti, vidyādhara who accomplished Kīlaya,
Shower down your blessing!
Hūṃ! In the south-east lies the charnel ground Spontaneously Accomplished Mound
Where Rudra’s intestines are found.
The local protector has the face of a goat. The directional guardian is Agni, yellow in colour.
The great nāga king holds a lotus and jewel.
The river is raging, the clouds are orange.
The charnel tree appears wrathful and crooked.
The great protectress is Pukkasī.
From the stūpa Ke’u Tishen—
Dhanasaṃskṛta, vidyādhara who accomplished the mātṛkās,
Shower down your blessing!
Hūṃ! In the south-west lies the charnel ground Mahāguhya
Where Rudra’s head is found.
The local protector is blue in colour and rides a human.
The directional guardian is Rāvaṇa, the nāga king is Mahāpadma.
The ‘gana’ clouds are yellow, and the river is red.
The charnel tree is called Śāntim Upala.
The great protectress is Ghasmarī.
From the stūpa Kanika—
Vimalamitra, vidyādhara who accomplished Amṛtakuṇḍalin,
Shower down your blessing!
Hūṃ! In the north-west lies the charnel ground Great Hé
Where Rudra’s left arm is found.
The local protector has the face of a deer and is crippled.
The directional guardian is the wind god Vāyu and the nāga king Vāsuki.
Rain pours from massive clouds, and the river is black.
The tree is called Black Jala.
The great protectress is Śmaśānī.
From the stūpa Naturally Arisen Kuma—
Guhyacandra, vidyādhara who accomplished Offering and Praise,
Shower down your blessing!
Hūṃ! In the north-east lies the charnel ground Lokana
Where Rudra’s right leg is found.
The local protector has the face of a jackal, is white in colour and holds a knife and a skull-cup.
The directional guardian is Īśāna and the nāga king Jātya.
The river is black, and the clouds rumble.
The charnel tree is called Halakāla.
The great protectress is Caṇḍālī.
From the stūpa Gomasāla—
Śāntigarbha, vidyādhara who accomplished Fierce Mantra,
Shower down your blessing!
oṃ āḥ hūṃ vajra-guru padma tötreng tsal | vajra samaya siddhi phala hūṃ āḥ
hūṃ hūṃ hūṃ
All the deities who fill the sky dissolve into myself, the place and the materials,
And bless everything as the inexhaustible wheel of ornaments of the body, speech, and mind.