Short Guru Yoga of the Noble Lord, All-Knowing Tsongkhapa
The environment and those within it are in their natural state of purity.
In the sky before me, amidst an ocean of offering clouds,
Upon a jewelled lion throne and seats of lotus and moon,
Is the king of Dharma, the all-knowing Lobzang Drakpa,
Together with the assembly of his dharma heirs and disciples.
All of you, come now, through the force of your great magical powers,
From the Delightful Dharma-Bearing palace in Tuṣita. 1
Let your incomparably radiant three secrets blaze in splendour,
And remain, I pray, to be gratified and grant your blessings.
I create emanations of my own body, as numerous as atoms,
All of them paying homage respectfully and devotedly with body, speech and mind.
I offer gifts, actually present and created through the force of mantra and aspiration,
And I confess all my harmful misdeeds and downfalls.
I rejoice in virtue; I implore you to turn the Wheel of Dharma,
And I request that you remain without passing into parinirvāṇa.
The virtue represented here I dedicate towards great awakening.
My own and others’ bodies, possessions and merits,
Arise as clouds of maṇḍala offerings like Samantabhadra’s display,
Infinitely vast, extending to the far reaches of space, which I now offer.
May I gather the accumulations, purify obscurations and attain the two kāyas.
Great treasury of non-referential compassion, Avalokiteśvara,
Powerful lord of flawless wisdom, Mañjuśrī,
And destroyer of all the hosts of Māra, Vajrapāṇi, Lord of Secrets—
Crowning glory amongst all the learned masters of the Land of Snows,
Tsongkhapa Lobzang Drakpa, at your feet I pray! 2
Always inspire me with your blessings, I pray.
Inspire me to infuse my character with Dharma.
Inspire me to develop renunciation for ordinary existence.
Inspire me to maintain immaculate ethical discipline.
Inspire me to recognise sentient beings as my parents.
Inspire me to develop loving kindness and compassion.
Inspire me with the capacity to exchange myself for others.
Inspire me with mastery of cherishing others above myself.
Inspire me to generate the supreme mind of awakening.
Inspire me to realize the authentic view.
Inspire me to become a source of infinite benefit to others.
Inspire me to overcome the demonic forces of Māra.
Inspire me to spread the teachings of Buddha.
Forms, mantras and hand implements stream forth
From the guru’s enlightened body, speech and mind and dissolve into my own three centres.
Through this, I receive empowerment, blessings and attainments.
The retinue melts into light and dissolves into the venerable guru,
Who is delighted and descends through my brahma-aperture
To take his place happily on a moon disc
Upon the blossoming white lotus at my heart.