A Prayer Invoking the Benefits of the Festival of the Tenth Day
The thousand buddhas who come to our world in this Fortunate Age
All are equal in renunciation and realization, and they care for beings with compassion and with love.
Yet here in this land ringed by mountains, it is your kindness
That goes beyond all words or description; and the more I think of it, the deeper my faith and devotion grow.
This snow-land of Tibet was predicted by all the buddhas
As the realm that Avalokiteśvara would tame,
Which in truth is nothing other than what has been done
By Songtsen Gampo, Tri Songdetsen, Ralpachen, and you, the Great Guru of Orgyen.
“Meditate on me, the Guru; accomplish me; follow me.
For seeing me is seeing all the buddhas,
And because I am the very essence of all the sugatas,
On every tenth day I shall come to Tibet.”
So you say and so, remembering your life-story, we pray!
At sunrise on the tenth day of the sixth month,
On Lake Dhanakośa you appear, in the heart of a lotus blossom.
In the twelfth month, Indrabhūti invites you,
And, enthroned as crown prince, you practise the supreme vajra path.
In the first month, you renounce the kingdom and in the Chilly Grove
You practise yogic discipline, and magnetize the ḍākinīs.
In the second month, to lead others through the gradual stages of the teaching,
You take ordination with acharya Prabhāhasti.
In the third month when the king of Zahor seeks to burn you alive,
You transform the flames into water, and are praised by the gods of the three heavens.
In the fourth month, when the king of Oḍḍiyāna burns you together with Mandāravā,
You render even those who delight in evil
Powerless, and inspire them with complete faith in you.
In the fifth month, in the kingdom of the far south,
With thunderbolts you liberate the tīrthikas hostile to the teachings.
In the seventh month, in the Zangling border lands
When the king of the tīrthikas seals you in a copper pot,
And casts you into the river, in a miraculous display
You instantly soar up into the sky and reverse the river’s flow,
Which all but destroys the malicious king’s entire palace.
Terrified, he begs forgiveness and takes refuge in you.
In the eighth month, malevolent tīrthikas scheme to kill you
With poisoned food, yet not only are you unharmed,
But your appearance and your whole being shine in ever growing splendour.
In the ninth month, when you arrive in Yangleshö,
The gods and spirits of Nepal and Tibet challenge and attack you.
Arising in the form of Vajrakumāra, you make them swear allegiance.
In the tenth month, you arrive in central Tibet,
And on the peak of Mt. Hepori, you bind gods and spirits under oath.
The teachings of Buddha spread in Tibet because of your kindness alone, not of others,
And the more I think of this, the deeper my faith and devotion grow.
In the eleventh month, when you decide to leave for the land of the rākṣasas,
At Chimphu you confer with the disciples, and prepare
To fill the whole land of Tibet with termas,
Magnetizing the lords of the earth, and entrusting them with the treasures.
This is why each tenth day, when it comes,
Is a festival that celebrates your enlightened actions,
The time when mamos and khandros assemble,
When the channels, essence and winds in the vajra body
Gather, and through this wonderful tendrel
The four kinds of activity all are mastered,
Rain will fall on time, and epidemics in animals and humans cured.
Frost, hail, poverty, violent conflict, loss and ruin and the like,
All over this world whatever the degenerations of this age may be—
Let them all be eliminated by our maintaining the practice of the tenth day, and through the blessing of this prayer alone.
And so that we can witness this, before our very eyes,
Now is the time to keep your promise: look on us with your compassion!
Among the people of Tibet, when the intelligent all have faith in you,
But the heartless despise even their own kind parents,
Let your compassion be impartial, we implore you.
You swore never to neglect or abandon the people of Tibet—
Now is the time to honour your promise:
Look on us with your compassion,
Grant your blessing so that all our aspirations are fulfilled, just as we desire!