Bodhicaryāvatāra Lineage Prayer
Kinsman of the sun, dharma sovereign and mighty sage, 1
Powerful lord of the tenth bhūmi, Mañjughoṣa,
And Śāntideva, bodhisattva who reached the stage of perfect joy—
To you I pray: inspire me with your blessings!
Five hundred great paṇḍitas with infallible mnemonic powers,
Jetāri who gained victory over the enemy, māra’s hordes,
And the great and noble being, Candrakīrti—
To you I pray: inspire me with your blessings!
Puṇyaśrī who retained a vast treasury of scriptural transmission,
Kanakaśrī, who perfected the conduct of a bodhisattva,
And Sumatikīrti, powerful lord of compassion—
To you I pray: inspire me with your blessings!
Noble Loden Sherab, prophesied by the Buddha, 2
Drolungpa, whose mind was rich with study, reflection and meditation, 3
And the powerful lord of reasoning, great Chapa Chöseng— 4
To you I pray: inspire me with your blessings!
Sönam Tsemo, who possessed the splendour of boundless knowledge, 5
Jetsün Rinpoche, a powerful lord of realisation, 6
And Sakya Paṇḍita, who knew all there is to know— 7
To you I pray: inspire me with your blessings!
Changchub Pal, who upheld the Vinaya and diligently maintained his vows, 8
Dewa Pal, who was learned and assiduous in practice, 9
And noble Drakpa Zhönnu, who knew the entire tripiṭaka— 10
To you I pray: inspire me with your blessings!
The elder and mighty scholar, Sönam Drakpa, 11
Adornment atop the crowns of beings, Sönam Gyaltsen, 12
And Palden Tsultrim, a powerful lord of practical instruction— 13
To you I pray: inspire me with your blessings!
Possessor of the five wisdoms, holder of the banner of victory for the teachings,
Excellent one with the splendour and riches of loving kindness and compassion,
Virtuous guide whose kindness is unequalled—
To you I pray: inspire me with your blessings!
Now that I have the free and excellent support of this human life,
Avoiding the eight inopportune states and complete with the ten riches,
I must avoid harmful action and exert myself in positive deeds—
Inspire me to develop concentration and a virtuous mind!
By bringing to mind the many aspects and boundless benefits
Of bodhicitta, which is the root of the Mahāyāna path,
Inspire me to take on this supreme and precious commitment,
Both in aspiration and in action, through a ritual that is utterly pure.
So that I might thoroughly preserve this precious mind,
Inspire me to guard and properly maintain all vows,
The threefold discipline, supreme path of the buddha’s heirs,
According to what is described in detail in the sūtra collection.
Inspire me to perfect the transcendent perfections
Of generosity, ethical discipline, patience, diligence,
Concentration and wisdom, and a buddha’s other qualities,
And thus to abide by the conduct of a bodhisattva!
Inspire me so that I may connect the roots of virtue from training
In the path of awakening to excellent and wondrous aspirations,
And thereby swiftly attain the level of buddhahood
Wherein the three kāyas are perfectly complete!