The Sun of Ambrosial Wisdom A Guru Yoga of Dharmarāja Sakya Paṇḍita
Ah! Where all that appears and exists is completely pure, Akaniṣṭha, the realm of great bliss—
Before me, amidst a ravishing display of cloud-like offerings,
Is Mañjughoṣa in person, Sakya Paṇḍita Kunga Gyaltsen.
Youthful and handsome, adorned with all the enlightened marks,
And attractively clothed in three saffron dharma robes,
At his heart his two hands form the Dharma-teaching mudrā .
Both hold lotus stalks, upon which rest a sword and a scripture,
His legs are vajra-crossed, and he is seated upon a lotus and moon.
Smiling with delight, he looks upon me with love.
As the glorious jñānasattva in his heart,
Youthful Mañjuśrī, orange, with scripture and sword,
Sits with legs in vajra posture, enveloped in myriad rays of light.
With all saṃbhogakāya attributes, upon a moon in his heart is dhīḥ ,
Blazing with the orange brilliance of a billion suns.
Around him is a maṇḍala of buddhas and bodhisattvas.
He possesses the wisdom kāya of all the buddhas.
Bowing with devotion to the glorious guru, I prostrate a hundred times,
I offer all that delights within appearance and existence as clouds of Samantabhadra’s offerings,
I regret mistakes due to obscured ignorance and confess them,
And I rejoice in the ocean of virtues gathered in saṃsāra and nirvāṇa,
I enjoin you to turn the wheel of stainless Dharma, profound and vast,
And to remain in the vajra body for as long as wandering beings exist:
Please free beings from existence and peace as far as the reaches of space,
And bring completion, maturation and training to perfection!
You, father of all victors and their bodhisattva heirs,
Have the form of non-dual wisdom, Mañjuśrī.
Your inconceivable life and liberation, a guide for all places and times, I praise.
Remembering your qualities, I pray.
Within my heart, atop a blossoming lotus flower,
With excellent, delightful marks, truly adorned,
Just as you have done in your life and liberation, O Protector,
Please bestow on us, your disciples, your conduct, power and blessings!
In your expansive vision, you see all that can be known,
In your compassion, you accomplish virtue and goodness for all beings,
In your power, you perform activities beyond comprehension,
At the feet of the teacher Mañjunātha, Gentle Lord, I pray!
In the heart of the Dharmarāja, an orange dhīḥ rests upon a moon,
Surrounded by the six-syllable vajra mantra.
Light-rays shine out and then gather, purifying all beings' two obscurations,
And invoking the mind-streams of buddhas and bodhisattvas,
Light-rays imbued with the blessings of wisdom, power and love gather and dissolve into the heart.
From your form, inconceivable light rays
Fill my own body, and purify spiritual and physical sickness, negativities and obscurations.
With impurities of ignorance cleansed, wisdom which realizes
The meaning of selflessness, the natural state, arises within the mind.
oṃ arapacana dhīḥ
From the guru’s form, ambrosial wisdom
Pours forth as an orange stream of great bliss,
It enters the crown of the head and fills the whole body,
And blessings of enlightened body, speech, and mind are truly received.
All obscurations of body, speech and mind purified,
The three vajra secrets of Guru Mañjuśrī,
And the good fortune of non-duality are actualized.
The guru and entourage melt into light and dissolve into me.
The ground of mind is primordially free from arising, ceasing and abiding.
Non-dual wisdom suffuses the aggregates.
All empowerments and siddhis are obtained.
All realms are pervaded by illusory forms, empty yet appearing.
All sounds at all times proclaim the three vehicles’ Dharma.
May we enjoy the glorious three secrets of Lord Protector Mañjuśrī,
His wisdom, love and power beyond measure!