White and Red Sur Offerings That Are Very Easy to Apply White Sur Red Sur Elaborate Aspiration
Homage to the Guru!
I and all beings, infinite as space,
Go for refuge to you, Protector Avalokiteśvara,
Embodiment of all refuge objects.
Just as you roused bodhicitta,
So I, in order to free beings through all of space,
Will swiftly reach awakening!
May all beings have happiness,
Be freed from all suffering,
Never be parted from true happiness,
And abide in unbiased equanimity.
In an instant I become the wisdom form
Of Avalokiteśvara, Khasarpaṇi.
oṃ maṇi padme hūṃ hrīḥ
oṃ āḥ hūṃ
From oṃ āḥ hūṃ, the burnt substances
Become clouds of wisdom offerings, flowing out.
To the undeceiving Three Jewels
I offer these amṛta burnt substances.
Please protect me and all beings!
To the gurus, yidams, and sky-goers
I offer these amṛta burnt substances.
Please bless me and all beings!
To the Dharma protectors, local deities, and landlords
I offer these amṛta burnt substances.
Dispel obstacles and accomplish the activities!
To all beings, with my parents foremost among them,
I dedicate these amṛta burnt substances.
May their obscurations be purified and the two accumulations perfected!
To all beings in the intermediate state
I dedicate these amṛta burnt substances.
May their delusion and suffering be pacified!
To all karmic creditors, foes, and obstructors
I dedicate these amṛta burnt substances.
May all debts and grudges be purified!
Just as all the victors of the past
Accomplished their aims through generosity,
By the pure truth of dharmatā
May all these aspirations be fulfilled!
namaḥ sarvatathāgatāvalokite oṃ sambhara sambhara hūṃ
oṃ maṇi padme hūṃ hrīḥ
namo ratnatrayāya | oṃ kaṃkani kaṃkani | rocani rocani | troṭani troṭani | trāsani trāsani | pratihana pratihana | sarvakarmaparaṃparāṇime sarvasattvānāñca svāhā
Through the power of my intentions,
The power of the tathāgatas’ generosity,
And the power of dharmadhātu,
Whatever plans or intentions there may be
To venerate the noble ones
And bring benefit to all beings—
May all of them, whatever they may be,
In all worlds and all realms, without exception,
Be fulfilled without hindrance!
All things arise from causes.
Those causes were taught by the Tathāgata.
The cessation of those causes
The great śramana thus explained:
Commit not a single misdeed,
Cultivate a wealth of virtue,
Completely tame your mind—
This is Buddha’s teaching.
By this virtue, may all beings
Gather the accumulations of merit and wisdom,
And attain the two sublime kāyas
Resulting from that merit and wisdom!
I am vividly present as Avalokiteśvara.
oṃ āḥ hūṃ
This sur offering of the five sense pleasures
Satisfies the senses of all beings pervading space.
namaḥ sarvatathāgatāvalokite oṃ sambhara sambhara hūṃ
Oṃ. This sur offering of the five sense pleasures,
Mixed with meat, blood, grains, and medicines,
I dedicate to Yama, Lord of Death, who cuts short
The lives and vitality of us teachers, students, and retinue.
I dedicate it also to the hordes of mamos
And the flocks of jungpos, flesh-eaters, and yakṣas,
To the ogres, scent-eaters, hungry spirits and the like,
And to those with savage, evil intentions.
I dedicate this to you all, together with your retinues!
May it please and delight you and completely satisfy you,
Such that karmic dues and debts are cleared away
And all aggression and hostility appeased.
May we be freed from the fear of untimely death,
From all illness, and all harm.
May benevolence and bliss dawn within,
Bringing an abundance of perfect auspiciousness!
Hoḥ. The dharmadhātu is completely pure;
Yet relatively, cause and effect are undeceiving.
So, by the power of this gathering of virtue beyond measure,
Which has occurred as dependent arising,
May the teachings of the victorious ones flourish!
May the sacred Dharma long remain
And may the saṅgha be sustained by the Dharma!
May the lifespans of the gurus remain firm,
And may all their visions be accomplished!
May we practise the yidam until accomplishment,
And thereby attain the two siddhis!
May enmity with the mamos and sky-goers be purified!
May our heart samaya with the three roots be mended!
May we not incur punishments from the protectors!
May all negative karma, misdeeds, and obscurations,
Accumulated by myself and the infinity of beings
Since time without beginning, all be purified!
May adverse conditions and obstacles be pacified,
And the accumulations of merit and wisdom perfected!
May the torments of heat and cold among hell beings be pacified!
May hungry ghosts be freed from hunger and thirst!
May animals be freed from terror!
May gods practise the Dharma and not plunge to lower states!
May the strife of demi-gods be appeased!
May humans be liberated from the four streams! 1
May beings in the intermediate state recognize their true nature!
In short, may all sentient beings
Be completely freed from the terrors of the lower realms
And attain unsurpassable awakening!
May all beings abiding in this place
Live long, in good health, and with prosperity!
May all our work and actions
Be performed as the six pāramitās!
May virtue ever increase!
May all my actions, large and small,
Be virtuous and likewise—
Infused with compassion guided by pure knowledge—
May they bring benefit and bliss to others!
Living by such virtue, may I persevere
In meditation and its methods.
May I not be discouraged or ever turn away.
May I have patience towards all, whether they be grateful or not.
Practising carefully in that way,
May I live for a hundred years.
Just like the aspirations of Avalokiteśvara,
May my own aspirations be fulfilled!