The Three Kāyas: Praises to the Great Master Padmasambhava
Compassionate power of the buddhas of the three kāyas
Manifesting in a single form as the Vidyādhara King,
In your vajra body, lord of the ḍākinīs of great bliss —
Mighty Lotus Skull-Garland, 1 to you I offer homage and praise!
Inseparable from Amitābha and the protector Avalokiteśvara,
Manifesting on the waters of the radiant sindūra ocean,
The great knowledge mantra holder of the triple world —
Peerless Guru, to you I offer homage and praise!
Born from a lotus flower, your lotus mouth smiling,
Resplendent with the marks and signs, regent of all victors,
Unmatched heir of the conquerors, sovereign of the world —
Supreme Bliss Lotus King, to you I offer homage and praise!
Persisting in yogic discipline in sacred sites and lands,
You magnetized arrogant female spirits and set them to work,
And spread the teachings of secret mantra throughout the world —
Rays of the Sun, to you I offer homage and praise!
At a mere glance you understood all that is to be known
An all-seeing scholar, the five sciences perfected,
Heir of the conquerors, inseparable from Mañjuśrī —
Wise Seeker of the Sublime, to you I offer homage and praise!
You attained perfection in the realization and conduct
Of the tripiṭika and the six classes of tantra,
Master of the ocean of perfect liberation of the victors and their heirs —
Lotus-Born Padmasambhava, to you I offer homage and praise!
As though it were the Supreme Victor himself returning,
You came as a supreme emanation, your five aggregates pure,
And sounded the melodious lion’s roar of supreme Dharma throughout the three realms —
Lion of the Śākyas, to you I offer homage and praise!
Reaching the vidyādhara stage of immortal vajra-life,
You attained mastery of every siddhi and everything sublime,
Thus becoming inseparable from the chief of all maṇḍalas —
Lotus-Born Padmākara, to you I offer homage and praise!
Through your display of awe-inspiring miracles,
You crushed your rivals — māras and heretics.
Lord of vajra magic, peerless in your splendour —
Lion’s Roar, to you I offer homage and praise!
The Victor’s teachings flourished in the Snowy Land;
All corrupted parties were subdued by vajra magic;
Everywhere the land was filled with priceless terma-treasures –
Mighty Vajra Wrath, to you I offer homage and praise!
Your one kāya, eight forms, and twenty emanations
Pervade the sahā-world and the thirty-six realms,
And all the infinite range of manifested fields.
King of Magical Display, to you I offer homage and praise!
Inseparable from the eight bodhisattvas, the eight iṣṭadevatās,
And the ocean of victors and their heirs,
You are the unsurpassed chief of all maṇḍalas —
Peerless Guide, to you I offer homage and praise!
Sole embodiment of the compassion of all the buddhas,
In your role as protector of this degenerate age
With your exalted compassion for beings, and your blessing,
You care for your disciples: to you I offer homage and praise!
Lotus-born, glorious, perfect buddha,
Knower of all things, you hold the treasury of wisdom.
Vidyādhara King, magical display of myriad teachers,
Grander than the rest, awakened wisdom mantra holder,
Naturally present Samantabhadra —
May the illuminating merit, shining bright as daylight,
Of these elegant praises, sung with unstinting faith,
Cause the lotus grove of the Lake-born’s teachings to flourish!
May the decline of worlds and beings be pacified completely!
May glory, renown, auspiciousness, happiness, and excellence flourish!
May every being be accepted by you, peerless Guru,
And attain the supreme state of the innate Lotus-born!