A Concise Guru Sādhana of My Sublime Father, Karma Urgyen Tsewang Chokdrup Pelbar 1 Calling the Guru From Afar
Āḥ Guru, watch over me!
Sublime father, Urgyen Tsewang, watch over me!
Help me, that gaining realization I may be freed!
Re-emanation of Chöwang, 2 sublime father, watch over me!
Bestow blessings, that through wisdom-capacity others may be freed!
Re-emanation of Lhalung Peldor, 3 Uḍḍiyāna, watch over me!
May I decisively recognize trekchö , decide on the one point, and gain confidence in liberation!
Manifestation of the great treasure-revealer, Uḍḍiyāna, watch over me!
May I complete the four visions of tögal , and reach the exhaustion of dharmatā!
As you bestowed the grand empowerment of awareness’s expression, the ultimate transmission,
The compassionate blessings of the wisdom transmission suffused my heart.
The basic nature is unchanging—the single sphere of dharmakāya.
Its radiance is unimpeded—the clarity of sambhogakāya.
Its potency, expressed in myriad ways, has dissolved into basic space,
And all these appearances arise as illusions or dreams.
I am freed from the enclosing stains of samsara-nirvana duality;
Freed from the hope and fear of a Copper-Colored Mountain above;
Freed from the hope and fear of the deepest hells below.
As the relative outer guru bestowed the four empowerments,
I met the ultimate inner guru in the core of my heart.
I recalled the dharmakāya root guru, ever-pure awareness.
I recalled the sambhogakāya guru, the luminous nature.
I recalled the nirmāṇakāya guru, the manifold capacity, shining like a moon reflected in water.
Sublime father, natural spontaneous presence of the three kāyas, watch over me!
To you I pray—Uḍḍiyāna, watch over me!
To you I call out with longing—gracious root guru, watch over me!
I, so unworthy, have no source of hope but you.
Bless me, that basic space and realization may become inseparable.
Bless me, that the sun of realization may dawn within.
Bless me, that I may realize that samsara and nirvana are indivisible.
Bless me, that appearances and mind may merge inseparably.
Bless me, that empty awareness may dawn nakedly.
Bless me, that I may realize the unity of emptiness and bliss.
Bless me, that I may attain the rainbow body of great transference.
Lead me to the Lotus-Covered Realm in the depths of my heart!
The son of the victorious ones, bodhisattva Lotus Essence, 4
Is manifest as the great treasure-revealer, Chokgyur Dechen Zhikpo Lingpa,
His hands in the mudrās of equipoise and expounding the Dharma, holding a skullcup filled with amṛta;
His awareness free and unobstructed, his compassion ever-present.
May I be reborn in his Lotus-Covered Realm!