I pay homage to all the buddhas and bodhisattvas
Thus have I heard at one time
The Bhagavān was residing at Vulture Peak Mountain in Rājagṛha together with a great bhikṣu saṅgha of a full hundred thousand bhikṣus
and together with eighty quintillion bodhisattvas
all of whom had one rebirth remaining
were renowned for their higher cognitions, and had gathered there from the worlds in the ten directions
they had complete mastery of the dhāraṇīs and sūtras
they satisfied all beings with the gift of the Dharma
they were skilled in speaking of the wisdom of the higher cognitions
they had attained the highest perfection of all the highest perfections
they were skilled in the knowledge of remaining in all bodhisattva samādhis and samāpattis
they had been praised, extolled, and lauded by all the buddhas
they were skilled in miraculously going to all buddha realms
they were skilled in the knowledge of terrifying all māras
they were skilled in the correct knowledge of the nature of all phenomena
they were skilled in the knowledge of the higher and lower capabilities of all beings
they were skilled in the knowledge of accomplishing the activity of offering to all the buddhas
they were unstained by any of the worldly concerns
they had perfectly adorned bodies, speech, and minds
they wore the armor of great love and great compassion
they had great undiminishing diligence throughout countless eons
they roared the great lion’s roar
they could not be defeated by any opponent
they were sealed with nonregression
and they had received the consecration of the Dharma from all buddhas
They were the bodhisattva mahāsattva
In addition there were also devas, nāgas, yakṣas, gandharvas, asuras, garūḍas, kiṃnaras, mahoragas, humans, and nonhumans, who were all illustrious and renowned as being very powerful
The fourfold assembly and the worlds of devas als
paid homage to him, made offerings to him, honored him, worshiped him, revered him, praised him, and venerated him
He taught perfectly the spiritual conduct that is good in the beginning
good in the middle, and good in the end, that has a good meaning, that has good words
and is unalloyed, complete, pure, and wholesome
At that time, within that gathered assembly there was a youth named Candraprabha
who had honored the jinas in the past, had planted roots of merit
could remember his previous lives, had the confidence of speech
had correctly followed the Mahāyāna, and who was dedicated to great compassion
and, kneeling on his right knee
with palms placed together bowed toward the Bhagavān and made this request
“If the Bhagavān will give me an opportunity to seek answers to them
The Bhagavān addressed the youth Candraprabha, saying
“Young man, ask whatever question you wish of the Tathāgata, the arhat, the perfectly enlightened Buddha
I have attained preeminence because of my strengths and fearlessness concerning all Dharmas
I possess the unobscured wisdom of liberation
“Young man, there is nothing in the endless, infinite worlds that the Tathāgata does not know
has not seen, has not heard, has not understood, has not directly perceived
and about which he has not become completely enlightened
“Young man, may you always have the opportunity to ask questions of the Tathāgata
and I will gratify you with answers for each of the questions you ask.
“Lord of the World, Buddha, Illuminator, bringer of benefit
Elucidate what kind of practice Will bring the attainment of inconceivable wisdom
 “Lord of humans, speaker of the truth, preeminent among humans
 “Lord of humans, speaker of the truth, preeminent among humans
To whom humans and devas make offerings, how should one practice In order to attain the unfathomable, supreme, highest yāna
Within the vast teaching of the one with ten strengths
How can the aggregate of correct conduct be flawless
Through the practice of which a person will have sharp wisdom
How can they have an unafflicted mind
“Young man, bodhisattva mahāsattvas will attain all those qualities and quickly attain the highest, complete enlightenment of perfect buddhahood if they have one quality
What is that one quality
Young man, it is the bodhisattva mahāsattvas’ evenness of mind toward all beings
They wish to benefit them, have no anger, and have no partiality
Young man, if bodhisattva mahāsattvas have that one qualit
they will attain all those qualities and quickly attain the highest, complete enlightenment of perfect buddhahood.
The Bhagavān then recited these verses to the youth Candraprabha
“Having obtained one quality, Those bodhisattvas, whoever they are
Will attain these qualities And quickly attain enlightenment
 “Anger toward anyone does not arise in the mind Of the bodhisattva who has a mind without anger
Those who are not hardhearted or wicked Will attain exactly what has been described
 “As they remain in evenness of mind, There will be an evenness of ripening results
The soles of their feet will be even And their range of conduct will be even
 “They meditate with even minds that are without unevenness. Without the fault of hardheartedness and devoid of cravin
They have even soles and palms. They are supremely bright and are seen as pure
 “The bodhisattvas illuminate the ten directions, Spreading splendor and light through a buddha realm
When they attain the level of peace, They establish many beings in buddha wisdom
 “Young man, in that way the bodhisattva mahāsattva who has evenness of mind toward all beings
wishes to benefit them, and has no anger or partialit
will attain the samādhi known as the revealed equality of the nature of all phenomena
“Young man, what is the samādhi called the revealed equality of the nature of all phenomena
“It is restraint of the body. It is restraint of the speech. It is restraint of the mind
It is purity of action. It is the transcendence of the mind’s perceptions
It is knowledge of the skandhas. It is the equality of the dhātus
It is the elimination of the āyatanas. “It is the renunciation of craving
It is having the direct perception of birthlessness. It is engagement in activity
It is the illumination of causes. It is the non-dissipation of the results of karma
It is insight into phenomena. It is the meditation of the path. It is meeting the tathāgatas
“It is sharp wisdom. It is penetrating into beings. It is knowledge of phenomena
It is the knowledge of engaging in discernment. It is the knowledge of the different kinds of letters and words
It is the transcendence of matter. It is the understanding of sounds
It is the attainment of joy. It is experiencing the joy of the Dharma
It is sincerity. It is tolerance. It is to be without deception
It is having veneration for the guru. It is respect for the guru
It is to be welcoming. “It is to be without laziness
It is to be gentle. It is having a smiling face. It is being courteous
“It is to be without frowns. It is to be pleasant. It is to have correct conduct. It is to be friendly
It is being content with occurrences. It is never being satisfied with the good actions one has done
It is having a pure livelihood. It is not forsaking the solitary life
“It is the knowledge of successive levels. It is always maintaining mindfulness
It is being wise concerning the skandhas. It is being wise concerning the dhātus
It is being wise concerning the āyatanas. It is making one’s higher cognitions manifest to others
“It is the elimination of kleśas. It is ceasing engagement with propensities
It is having specific attainments. It is the natural result of meditation
“It is skillfulness in eliminating transgressions. It is the prevention of the arising of bad actions
It is the elimination of attachment. “It is transcending the existences
It is the memory of previous rebirths. It is being free from doubt concerning the ripening of karma
“It is the contemplation of phenomena. It is seeking to hear the Dharma
It is having sharp knowledge. It is craving for wisdom
It is the realization of wisdom. “It is the level of a noble being
It is having a mind like a mountain. It is being unshakable
It is being immovable. It is the knowledge of the nature of the level of irreversibility
“It is having the natural result of good qualities. It is the abhorrence of bad qualities
It is being free of behavior caused by the kleśas. It is never abandoning the training
“It is being established in samādhi. It is the knowledge of the thoughts of beings
It is the knowledge of the various rebirths of beings. It is knowledge of the infinite
It is the knowledge of the intended meaning of words. “It is the rejection of living in a home
It is finding no joy in the three realms. It is having a motivation that is not discouraged
It is having no attachment to phenomena. “It is having possession of the sacred Dharma
It is protecting the Dharma. It is conviction in the ripening of karma
It is skill in the vinaya
“It is the pacification of disputes
It is the absence of discord and the absence of quarrels
It is having reached the level of patience. It is maintaining patience
“It is the equality of the different kinds of beings. It is skill in examining phenomena
It is skill in gaining certainty concerning phenomena. “It is the knowledge of distinguishing between the words for phenomena
It is knowledge of the past. It is knowledge of the future
It is knowledge of the present. It is the knowledge of the equality of the three times
“It is the wisdom of buddhahood’s freedom from the kleśas
“It is the level of buddhahood taught by the tathāgatas
It is the knowledge that analyzes and realizes the nature of all phenomena
“It is attending upon wise beings. It is rejecting those who are not wise beings
“It is the level of spiritual practice. It is the scope of practice of the bodhisattvas
It is the elimination of ignorance. It is being established in knowledge
It is being free of impatience. It is the level of knowledge
“It is appropriate patience. It is the level of patience
The foolish reject it. It is difficult for the śrāvakas to know
The pratyekabuddhas do not know it. It is not the level of the tīrthikas
The bodhisattvas possess it. It is realized by those who have the ten strengths
The devas make offerings to it. Brahmā praises it
The Śakras value it above all else. The nāgas pay homage to it
The yakṣas rejoice in it. The kiṃnaras praise it in song
The mahoragas laud it. The bodhisattvas meditate on it
The wise comprehend it. “It is the highest wealth
It is immaterial generosity. It is a medicine for the sick
It is a treasure of wisdom. It is unceasing eloquence
“It is the way of the sūtras. It is the domain of heroes
It is the comprehension of the entire three realms. It is a raft for crossing to the other shore
It is like a boat for those in the middle of a river. “It is fame for those who wish for renown
The buddhas praise it. The tathāgatas laud it
Those who have the ten strengths praise it. “It is the quality of the bodhisattvas
It is the completion of the doorways to liberation
“It is the purity of the mind. It is the purity of the bod
It is not the level of śrāvakas or pratyekabuddhas
It is the joy of the eldest sons. “It is the completion of buddha wisdo
It is the adornment of the bodhisattvas. It is the delight of those who desire liberation
It is the adornment of the Dharma body. It is the natural result of bodhisattva conduct
It is the omen for the eighteen unique qualities of a buddh
“It is the expression of truth for those who have fearlessness. It is the correct search for the strengths
“It is the pleasure grove of bodhisattvas. It is that which terrifies the māras
“It is the knowledge of those who have reached happiness. It is the benefit of those who accomplish benefit
“It is the refuge for those among enemies. It is the subjugation of adversaries by those who have the Dharma
“It is the seal upon all phenomena. It is the accomplishment of omniscient wisdom
“It is the diligent practice of those with a lion’s roar. It is the path of the wisdom of the buddhas
It is the equanimity of those with compassion. It is the love that brings anger to an end. “It is the delight of those with peaceful minds
It provides relief for those who follow the Mahāyāna
It is the nonarising of desire. It is devoid of anger
“It is not the level of ignorance. It is the arising of wisdom
It is the birth of knowledge. It is the elimination of ignorance
“It is the contentment of those dedicated to liberatio
It is the satisfaction of those dedicated to samādhi
It is eyes for those who wish for the view
It is higher knowledge for those who wish to perform miracles
It is miraculous power for those who wish for accomplishment
It is retentive memory for those dedicated to listening to the Dharma
“It is unceasing mindfulness. It is the blessing of the buddhas
It is the skillful method of the guides. “It is subtle and difficult to know for those without dedication
Those who are not liberated cannot know it. It is beyond words and difficult to know through speech
“It is known by wise beings. It is the knowledge of gentle beings
Those with few desires realize it. Those who have unceasing diligence possess it
Those who are mindful maintain it. “It is the cessation of suffering
It is the birthlessness of all phenomena. It is the single teaching on all existing beings and lifetimes
When the Bhagavān gave this teaching of the samādhi, the revealed equality of the nature of all phenomena
in the past, eighty times a hundred thousand million devas and humans, who had previously generated the necessary karma, attained the patience of the birthlessness of phenomena
inety-six times a hundred thousand million attained the corresponding patience
and the entirety of the hundred thousand bhikṣus attained liberation of mind through the defilements not arising
Sixty times a hundred thousand devas and human being
became free of desire, without stains, and gained the pure Dharma sight of the Dharmas
Five hundred upāsakas attained the result of nonreturners
Six thousand upāsikās attained the result of once-returners
This universe of a thousand million worlds shook in six ways: it trembled
it trembled strongly, and it trembled intensely
it quivered, it quivered strongly, and it quivered intensely
it shuddered, it shuddered strongly, and it shuddered intensely
it quaked, it quaked strongly, and it quaked intensely
The east sank and the west rose, the west sank and the east rose
the north sank and the south rose, the south sank and the north rose
the perimeter sank and the center rose, and the center sank and the perimeter rose
An immeasurable radiance shone in the univers
so that whatever darkness there was between the worlds was illuminated by it
The beings who were born there could see each other an
they cried, “Ah! Other beings have been born here too!
This occurred even as far down as the great Avīci hell
Conclusion of the first chapter: “The Introduction.
Chapter . Śālendrarāja. Then the Bhagavān said to the youth Candraprabha
“Young man, I remember that in the past, when I was practicing the conduct of a bodhisattva, I became a cakravartin
I desired this samādhi an
I desired to attain quickly the highest, complete enlightenment of perfect buddhahood
“Young man, I heard from those tathāgatas extensively the samādhi, the revealed equality of the nature of all phenomena
For many hundred thousand quintillions of eons on this Vulture Peak Mountai
“Young man, the last of all those tathāgatas was the Tathāgata, the arhat
I obtained it, asked questions about it, preserved it, recited it to others
promoted it, meditated on it with an unadulterated meditation
promulgated it, and made it widely known to others
every kind of jewel, and various kinds of beautiful flowers
incense, perfume, garlands, ointments, powders, parasols
banners, flags, music, musical instruments, flags of victory, and precious monasteries
Young man, that Tathāgata Śālendrarāja had a saṅgha of a thousand trillion śrāvakas and bodhisattva
Their lifespans were seven million, six hundred thousand years
I served and made offerings to the Tathāgata, the arhat, the perfectly enlightened Buddha Śālendrarāj
for a hundred and eighty thousand million years and I built ten million monasteries made of sandalwood and precious materials
The Tathāgata, the arhat, the perfectly enlightened Buddha Śālendrarāja’s lifespa
was seven hundred and sixty thousand million years
I entered homelessness in the presence of the Tathāgata, the arhat, the perfectly enlightened Buddha Śālendrarāj
and for a hundred and forty thousand million years I listened to the samādhi, the revealed equality of the nature of all phenomena
and for a hundred and forty thousand million years I listened to the samādhi, the revealed equality of the nature of all phenomena
I obtained it, asked questions about it, preserved it, recited it to others
promoted it, meditated on it with an unadulterated meditation
promulgated it, and made it widely known to others
Then the Bhagavān said to the youth Candraprabha
“Young man, if in that way you wish for this samādhi and wish to attain quickly the highest
complete enlightenment of perfect buddhahood, then you too should dedicate yourself to making offerings to, serving
and being an attendant to all tathāgatas as I have done
“Young man, why is that
“Young man, in that way you should never weary of making offerings to, serving, and being an attendant to all tathāgatas.
Then the Bhagavān taught extensively, as a praise in chanted verses, this chapter on the past lives of the youth Candraprabha
“I remember six hundred million of those who have the ten strengths
Dwelling on Vulture Peak Mountain in the past Who taught me
when I was practicing bodhisattva conduct
the illuminator Named Śālendrarāja
I was the principal king
Residing on Vulture Peak Mountain And teaching this supreme samādhi, this peace
All their attendants were named Ānanda
Chapter . Praise of the Buddha’s Qualities. Then the Bhagavān said to the youth Candraprabha
“Young man, therefore, if bodhisattva mahāsattva
wish to teach the buddha qualities as described by the Tathāgata, the arhat, the perfectly enlightened Buddha
without any loss of meaning or words, and for all their words to come forth as those of the Buddha, then those bodhisattva mahāsattvas
young man, should, for the sake of all beings, obtain this samādhi
understand it, preserve it, recite it to others
promote it, proclaim it, chant it
meditate on it with unadulterated meditation
promulgate it, and make it widely known to others
“Young man, what are the buddha qualities of a tathāgata
“Young man, bodhisattva mahāsattvas, whether in solitude
at the foot of a tree, in the open air
or in an empty building, should learn well the following
“The Bhagavān is thus: a tathāgata, an arhat, a fully enlightened buddha, one with perfect wisdom and conduct
a sugata, one who knows the world’s beings
an unsurpassable guide who tames beings, a teacher of devas and humans
a buddha, a bhagavān
“The Tathāgata is the natural result of merit
He is the inevitable result of roots of merit. He is adorned by patience
He is the manifestation of a treasure of merit
He is beautified by the excellent primary signs of a great being
He has the blossomed flowers of the secondary signs of a great being
He is exemplary in his conduct
His appearance is never disagreeable
He brings joy to those motivated by faith
He is invincible in his wisdom. He has the invulnerability of the strengths
He is the teacher of all beings. He is the father of all bodhisattvas
He is the king of all noble individuals. He is the caravan leader for those beginning on their journey
He is immeasurable in his wisdom
He is inconceivable in his eloquence
He is pure in his voice
He is delightful in his speech. He is lovely in his physical form
He is unequaled in body. He is unstained by the desire realm
He is unsullied by the form realm
He is unadulterated by the formless realm
He is liberated from the skandhas. He is separated from the dhātus
He has restrained the āyatanas. He has cut through the knots
He is free from torment. He is released from craving
He has crossed over the great river. He is complete in his wisdom
He is established in the wisdom of the buddha bhagavāns of the past, future, and present
He does not remain in nirvāṇa
He resides at the summit of existence
He is on the level of seeing all beings
Young man, those are the buddha qualities of a tathāgata
“If bodhisattva mahāsattvas who possess these buddha qualities and their praise
and who have continuous confidence of speech based upon this samādhi
teach correctly the buddha qualities and praises of the Tathāgata, the arhat, the perfectly enlightened Buddha
there will be no loss of meaning or words and all their words will come forth as those of the Buddha.
Then at that time the Bhagavān, in order to make the meaning clear
gave a detailed teaching by chanting the following extensive verses to the youth Candraprabha
Even if one were to speak for many thousands of eons
“It would not be easy to recite all the praises of the jina
Then the youth Candraprabha rose from his seat
removed his robe from one shoulder, and, kneeling on his right kne
with palms placed together, he bowed toward the Bhagavān and made this request
“If the Bhagavān will give me an opportunity to seek answers to them
I have a few questions for the Bhagavān, the tathāgata, the arhat, the perfectly enlightened Buddha.
I have a few questions for the Bhagavān
As the Bhagavān had given him the opportunity
the young man Candraprabha asked the Bhagavān
“The Bhagavān says, ‘samādhi, samādhi.’ What kind of Dharma does this word designate?
“Young man, when I say ‘samādhi, samādhi,’ it means the profound realization of the mind
“ It is the absence of arising.  It is the absence of continuation
 It is the knowledge of continuation.  It is putting down the burden
 It is the wisdom of the tathāgatas.  It is having the preeminence of a buddha
 It is the healing of desire, the pacifying of anger, and the elimination of ignorance
“ It is engaging in what should be engaged in
 It is rejecting that which should not be engaged in.  It is the aspiration to good qualities
 It is the wish to be free from saṃsāra. “ It is practicing with a higher motivation
 It is remaining awake.  It is not abandoning renunciation
 It is maintaining good qualities. “ It is not relying on rebirth
 It is not accumulating karma.  It is not paying attention to the internal āyatanas
 It is not engaging with the external āyatanas. “ It is not praising oneself
 It is not criticizing others.  It is having no attachment to family
 It is not placing one’s trust in ordinary people. “ It is the natural result of correct conduct
 It is that which is difficult to approach.  It is great majesty
 It is self-knowledge. “ It is the absence of inconstancy
 It is maintaining perfect behavior.  It is the absence of malice
 It is the absence of aggression.  It is not harming others
 It is taking care of companions.  It is guarding secret mantras
“ It is being nonviolent.  It is not being harmful to those with correct conduct
 It is speaking gently. “ It is not remaining anywhere in the three realms
 It is the patience that accords with the emptiness of all phenomena
 It is the aspiration to omniscient wisdom. “That, young man, is what is meant by ‘samādhi.
Young man, practicing those qualities and not practicing their opposite is what is meant by ‘samādhi.’ 
Then the Bhagavān taught the samādhi, the revealed equality of the nature of all phenomena
and at that time gave a detailed teaching by chanting the following extensive verses to the youth Candraprabha
Then the Bhagavān again addressed the youth Candraprabha, saying
“Therefore, young man, bodhisattva mahāsattvas who wish for this samādhi
and wish to attain quickly the highest, complete enlightenment of perfect buddhahood
should think that they are like someone whose hair and clothes are on fire, and they should cast off father, mother
son, daughter, family, kinsmen, relatives, kindred, wife, and so on
as if they were fire, throw away all the pleasures of a kingdom as if they were a lump of phlegm
turn toward solitude, and depart from home
“Why is that? Young man
let alone one who has this samādhi
“Therefore, young man, you should always train in having this thought: ‘I shall cast off friends, children, family, kinsmen, relatives, kindred, wife, and so on
turn toward solitude, and depart from home
who turns toward solitude and departs from home
attaining the highest, complete enlightenment of perfect buddhahood will not be difficult for a bodhisattva mahāsattv
“Young man, in the past, countless, vast, immeasurable, inconceivable, innumerable, asaṃkhyeya eons ago
a sugata, a knower of the world
“Therefore, young man, you should understand this through the following teaching, too
“Young man, at that time and in those days
In the second assembly there were seven hundred million arhats
in the first assembl
there were eight hundred million who were arhats
In the third assembly of śrāvakas there were six hundred million arhats
of the Bhagavān, the tathāgata, the arhat, the perfectly enlightened Buddha Ghoṣadatta’s śrāvakas
“Young man, at that time and in those days, during the time of the Bhagavān, the tathāgata, the arhat, the perfectly enlightened Buddha Ghoṣadatta
the lifespan was forty thousand years
This Jambudvīpa continent had wealth, increase, happiness, excellent harvests, joy
and was filled with a great multitude of human beings
“In this Jambudvīpa there were two kings named Dṛḍhabala and Mahābala
One ruled the half of Jambudvīpa that had wealth, increase, happiness, excellent harvests, joy
The other ruled the other half
“Young man, at that time, the Bhagavān, the tathāgata, the arhat, the perfectly enlightened Buddha Ghoṣadatt
appeared in the kingdom of King Mahābala
King Mahābala provided the Bhagavān, the tathāgata, the arhat, the perfectly enlightened Buddha Ghoṣadatta, the saṅgha of bodhisattvas
and the saṅgha of bhikṣus with faultless, proper clothing, alms, medicine if they were ill, and monastic utensils for their use
for a hundred thousand year
the saṅgha of bodhisattvas, and the saṅgha of bhikṣus received greatly renowned gifts and honors
“Brahmins and householders who had fait
also bestowed great gifts and honor
on the Bhagavān, the tathāgata, the arhat, the perfectly enlightened Buddha Ghoṣadatta
the saṅgha of bodhisattvas, and the saṅgha of bhikṣus
“Those brahmins and householders did this by following the example of King Mahābala
to the Bhagavān, the tathāgata, the arhat, the perfectly enlightened Buddha Ghoṣadatta
dedicating themselves to bestowing great gifts and honors by making offerings of worldly material good
“Young man, the Bhagavān, the tathāgata, the arhat, the perfectly enlightened Buddha Ghoṣadatta thought
‘Alas! These beings who have adopted correct conduct an
the poṣadha vows have come before the Tathāgata, have honored the Tathāgata
practice celibacy, have entered the homeless life, and have become fully ordained bhikṣus—they will go into decline
They are concerned about the happiness of their future lives. “ ‘Why is that
It is because in their future lives their happiness will be from these offerings of worldly material things
The realms of the higher existences are the goal of these beings
They are concerned with this life. They are concerned with their next life
They do not accumulate roots of merit for the final ultimate goal.
“Young man, what are the roots of merit for the ultimate goal
They are pure conduct and celibacy going toward the ultimate goal and reaching the ultimate goal
“Bhagavān Ghoṣadatta thought, ‘I must teach those beings the Dharma so that they will make the unsurpassable offering of the Dharma and the practice of the Dharma as their offering to the Tathāgata.
“Then, young man, at that time the Bhagavān, the tathāgata, the arhat, the perfectly enlightened Buddha Ghoṣadatta
with the intention of creating revulsion toward saṃsāra, recited these verses to King Mahābala, the brahmins, and the laypeople: 
The service of someone making a gift to another Is not a cause for holding each other in high esteem
The wise ones who are free of negative propensities, The buddhas, they do not praise that service.
‘Those who teach the Dharma for the benefit of beings, They are those who accomplish great service
Then there will form an unbreakable bond of friendship, Which not even ten million māras will be able to break.
‘The service of those who keep to worldly material things Will all be for the benefit of the present life
The immaterial service of the Dharma Leads to the greatest benefit for humans.  
‘Those who have a nonmaterialistic motivation And teach the nonmaterial Dharma
Those individuals who gain nonmaterial joy, They will quickly attain buddhahood.  
‘Those who are addicted to their desires, Who crave for children and wives
Who are addicted to their revolting homes, Will not attain unsurpassable, highest enlightenment.  
‘Supreme enlightenment will not be difficult to attain For thos
who avoid desire as if it were a pit of fire, Who abandon craving for children and wives, And, frightened and terrified, leave their homes.  
‘There have been no buddhas in the past, Nor will there be any in the future or now in the present
Who attain the highest, most supreme enlightenment While living inside their homes.  
‘Casting away a kingdom like a lump of phlegm, Longing for solitude and living in the forests
Eliminating the kleśas and defeating the māras, They will realize stainless, noncomposite enlightenment.  
‘People who, with a disenchanted mind, Leave their homes, they are superio
To those who serve, for many millions of eons, Heroic buddhas as numerous as the Ganges sands.  
‘People who leave their homes and practice the Dharma, Without serving the supreme humans, the jinas
With food, drink, and Dharma robes, With flowers, incense, and ointments—  
‘Those who, longing for enlightenment, Disillusioned with the composite, and for the benefit of beings
about leaving one’s home. Having heard this, he thought
‘I have understood the Bhagavān’s teaching to mean that he does not praise the perfection of generosity
but gives the highest, ultimate praise to the perfection of conduct
I would decline in my practice of the unsurpassable Dharma
I shall cut off my hair and beard, wear the orange robes, and leave home for homelessness.
The Bhagavān has praised perfect purity, perfect celibacy, and perfect nirvāṇa
“He thought, ‘It is not easy to practice the unsurpassable Dharma and attain its goal while living in a home
“Then, young man, King Mahābala, accompanied by eighty thousand brahmins and laypeople
came before the Bhagavān, the tathāgata, the arhat, the perfectly enlightened Buddha Ghoṣadatta
bowed down to his feet, circumambulated the Bhagavān three times, and sat to one side
“Young man, the the Bhagavān, the tathāgata, the arhat, the perfectly enlightened Buddha
knowing the higher motivation of King Mahābala, taught this samādhi, the revealed equality of the nature of all phenomena
“Young man, on hearing this, King Mahābala was pleased, delighted, joyful, inspired, and happy
He shaved off his hair and beard, put on the orange robes, and with faith left home for homelessness
Having entered homelessness he learned this samādhi, and having learned it he understood it
He dedicated himself to the practice of keeping it, reading it, and meditating on it
Through that root of merit, he did not fall into the lower existences for a hundred million eons
He served two hundred million buddhas and heard this samādhi from all those tathāgatas
He learned this samādhi, and having learned it he understood it
He dedicated himself to the practice of keeping it, reading it, and meditating on it
“Subsequently, through those roots of merit, after a hundred million eons had passed
and then another hundred thousand eons, he attained the highest, complete enlightenment of perfect buddhahood
He became the Bhagavān, the tathāgata, the arhat, the perfectly enlightened Buddha named Jñānaśūra
He benefited countless beings, and afterward he passed away into perfect nirvāṇa
“Young man, the eighty thousand people who with King Mahābala came into the presence of the Bhagavān, the Tathāgata Ghoṣadatt
all heard this samādhi also and were delighted, rejoicing, and joyful
Happy and joyful, they cut off their hair and beards, wore the orange robes, and with genuine faith they left home for homelessness
Having entered homelessness they learned this samādhi, and having learned it they understood it
They dedicated themselves to the practice of keeping it, reading it, and meditating on it
Through that root of merit, they did not fall into the lower existences for a hundred million eons
During all those eons, they served ten million buddhas and heard this samādhi from all those tathāgatas
They maintained this samādhi and comprehended it
“Through their previous roots of merit, after two hundred million eons had passed and a further hundred thousand eons
they attained the highest, complete enlightenment of perfect buddhahood
They all became bhagavāns, tathāgatas, arhats, perfectly enlightened buddhas named Dṛḍhaśūra
They benefited countless beings, and afterward they passed away into perfect nirvāṇa
“Therefore, young man, because of this teaching, the bodhisattva mahāsattvas cherish in this way this samādhi
They know that it is comprised of the unsurpassable wisdom of omniscience.
Then, at that time, the Bhagavān gave a detailed teaching by chanting the following extensive verses to the youth Candraprabha
“I remember, countless eons ago In the past
a supreme human, a great sag
Who benefited beings appeared in the world, And he was known by the name Ghoṣadatta.
“The first assembly of his students Numbered eight hundred million
The second was seven hundred million. The third was six hundred million arhats.
“All had eliminated defilements and were without kleśas. All had attained the perfection of miraculous powers
The lifespan was forty thousand years And the realm was perfectly pure and beautiful.
“The bodhisattvas of that protector Were consecrated to immeasurably benefit others
They were well established through their powers and levels. They were near to buddhahood beneath the sacred tree.
“In this Jambudvīpa there were kings Named Dṛḍhabala and Mahābala
One king ruled half the world, The other was king over the other half.
“The Buddha, to whom humans and devas made offerings, Had appeared within the domain of King Mahābala
The king gained faith in the Sugata And attended him for a thousand years.
“Many other beings, following his example, Also honored the Tathāgat
With worldly goods and not through the Dharma. They gave many things to the śrāvakas also.
“The highest of beings had this thought: ‘I shall teach the Dharma to these who desire the Dharma So that they will all give up desire And enter into homelessness in my teaching.’
The practice of following the Dharma of the sugatas
The endless suffering and harm of living in a home, And that practicing the Dharma is offering to the Dharma.
“The highest of humans taught in verse
“When the king, the sovereign, had heard those verses, That ruler of men contemplated entering solitude
He thought that all who dwell at home Are unable to make the supreme offering to the Dharma.
“He cast away the kingdom like a lump of phlegm And together with eighty thousand person
He came into the presence of the Jina, Bowed to his feet, and sat before him.
“The Jina, knowing what they intended, Taught this samādhi of peace that is difficult to see
Happy, inspired, and joyful, they were satisfied. Pleased and delighted, they entered homelessness.
“Homeless, they possessed this samādhi. They kept it, read it, and understood it
For two hundred million eons They did not fall into the lower existences.
“Because of those roots of merit, They all saw ten thousand million buddha
And in the teaching of those jinas They entered homelessness and meditated on this samādhi.
“In later times they became buddhas With infinite diligence, all named Dṛḍhaśūra
They benefited many millions of beings And after, like an extinguished flame, attained nirvāṇa.
“The one who previously had been King Mahābala Appeared in the world as Buddha Jñānaśūra
He brought many billions of beings To enlightenment, and then attained nirvāṇa.
“Therefore you who, in later times, hear and possess This sūtra that has been taught by the buddhas
If you possess this treasure of the Dharma You will quickly become a supreme human.”
Conclusion of the fifth chapter, “Ghoṣadatta.
The Bhagavān now said to the youth Candraprabha
“Therefore, young man, bodhisattva mahāsattvas who wish for this samādhi
and wish to attain quickly the highest, complete enlightenment of perfect buddhahood, should cultivate this samādhi
“Young man, what is the cultivation of this samādhi
Young man, bodhisattva mahāsattvas with a compassionate mind are dedicated to making offerings to the tathāgatas
whether living or passed into nirvāṇa
of Dharma robes, alms, seat and bedding, medicines for when ill, and of monastic utensils
and of flowers, incense, perfume, garlands, ointments, aromatic powders, clothing, parasols, banners, and flags
and of music and musical instruments
They dedicate that root of merit to the attainment of samādhi
They do not make offerings to a tathāgata with the hope for anything at al
—not with the hope for anything they desire, nor with the hope for any enjoyment
nor with the hope for a higher existence, nor with the hope for followers—but do so with the Dharma in mind
They do not even, with that wish, perceive the Tathāgata as the dharmakāya, let alone perceiving him as the rūpakāya
Young man, it is in that way that an offering is made to the tathāgatas
It is done without seeing the tathāgatas, without focusing on the self, and without any desire for the ripening of karma
Young man, if an offering made to a tathāgata is purified of those three aspects of the action, this samādhi will be attaine
and the highest, complete enlightenment of perfect buddhahood will be quickly reached.
At this point the Bhagavā
to the youth Candraprabh
gave a detailed teaching on the cultivation of the samādhi by chanting the following extensive verse
“Through offering incense to infinite wisdo
Beings will have an infinite aroma
In ten million eons they will not go to the lower realms, And no bad smells will come from them.
“For ten million eons they will practice bodhisattva conduct And make offerings to ten thousand million buddhas
The aroma of wisdom will arise so that they Will become buddhas with the aroma of supreme conduct.
“If any beings know that the incense they offer, Those to whom they offer it
And the minds that offer incense do not exist, The ‘concordant patience’ they have is of lesser kind.
“But if a person maintains a patience that is great, Even were they cut up, for ten million eons, Into tiny pieces as numerous as the Ganges sands
Their mind will never regress.
“Why is this termed ‘patience’? And why is it called ‘concordant’
For what reason is it said to be ‘nonregressive’? And why are they called ‘bodhisattvas’?
“Their patience being for the selfless nature of phenomena, Those who perceive selflessness have no kleśas
They know that all phenomena are like space. That, therefore, is what is termed ‘patience.’
“They train in accord with all the jinas. Those wise ones do not practice non-Dharma
They do not doubt the Buddha’s Dharma. That is the patience that is ‘concordant.’
“Even if all the māras in the world transformed Into buddhas and said to such practitioners, ‘Enlightenment is too difficult! So become a śrāvaka!’ They would not believe those words and would not regress.
“If they know of the incorrect view of beings They say, ‘This is not the path to deathlessness!
So that they reject the wrong path and are brought to the true path. That is the reason why they are called bodhisattvas.
“They remain upon the path of concordant patience And are awake through the knowledge of selflessness
Even in a dream they do not believe In humans, persons, souls, or beings.
“Even if as many millions of māras as there are Ganges sands Came before them in the forms of buddhas
And said to them that there is a soul within the body, They would reply that it was not so and say, ‘You are not buddhas.’
“Through wisdom I know that the skandhas are empty. Because I know that, I am unaccompanied by kleśas
In my conduct I use mere words But within this world remain within nirvāṇa,
“Just as when a man has a son born to him And gives him a name, saying, ‘This is his name!
But that name cannot be found anywhere. And that name did not come from anywhere.
“In that way the name ‘bodhisattva’ is given, But if one seeks for this ‘bodhisattva
That name will not be found anywhere. One who knows that is a bodhisattva.
“The bodhisattvas do not believe in the existence of a self Any more than that a fire can burn in the middle of the ocean
Since they have developed the aspiration for enlightenment They have not had the view that there is a soul within.
“There is no birth and there is no death For beings, humans, the descendants of Manu
Phenomena have an empty nature, like illusions; The tīrthikas are unable to know that.
“Also those who crave for food, Who desire and cling to alms bowls and robes
Who are arrogant and are haughty, They cannot understand the Buddha’s enlightenment.
“The lazy who are overcome by sleepiness and dullness, Who have stubborn minds, and are shameless
Who have no faith in the Buddha, They are unable to understand sublime enlightenment.
“The ordinary beings with incorrect behavior, Those who do not have faith in the Dharma
Who have no respect toward celibates, They are unable to understand enlightenment.
“Those with correct behavior, who have modesty and self-respect, Who delight in the Dharma and the buddhas
Who show great respect to the practitioners of celibacy, They will attain the supreme, highest enlightenment.
“Those whose conduct is performed with mindfulness, Who sit upon their cushion with joy and delight
With dhyāna as food and samādhi for drink, They will attain the supreme, highest enlightenment.
“Those who understand selflessness all day long, Who are mindful of emptiness as they walk
Who bear the beautiful aromatic flowers of the aspects of enlightenment, Those dedicated ones will attain supreme enlightenment.
“They who are skilled in bodhisattva conduct Are not on the level of other beings, Of śrāvakas, or of pratyekabuddhas
Who would not aspire to that realization?
“If I were to have a lifespan that continued For as many millions of eons as there are sands in the Ganges
I would not even be able to finish reciting the praises Of as little of the Buddha’s wisdom as a tiny pore.
“Therefore, having heard the benefits That have been taught by the unsurpassable Jina
That have been taught by the unsurpassable Jina, You should quickly become instructed in this samādhi. And then the attainment of supreme enlightenment will not be difficult.”
Conclusion of the sixth chapter, “Cultivation of the Samādhi.
“Therefore, young man, bodhisattva mahāsattvas who wish for this samādhi
and wish to attain quickly the highest, complete enlightenment of perfect buddhahoo
should become skilled in the wisdoms of the three kinds of patience
They should know the first patience. They should know the second patience. They should know the third patience
They should become skilled in the differences between the three kinds of patienc
and skilled in the differences between the wisdoms of the three kinds of patience
“Why is that? Young man, when bodhisattva mahāsattvas become skilled in the differences between the three kinds of patienc
and become skilled in the differences between the wisdoms of the three kinds of patience
then at that time, young man, bodhisattva mahāsattvas will quickly attain this samādhi
and will quickly attain the highest, complete enlightenment of perfect buddhahood
“Therefore, young man, bodhisattva mahāsattvas who wish to attain the highest, complete enlightenment of perfect buddhahoo
should learn this Dharma teaching on gaining the three kinds of patience
When they have learned it they should teach it widely to others
That will be of benefit to many beings
it will bring happiness to many beings, it will be a kindness to the world
it will bring fulfillment to a multitude of beings, and bring benefit and happiness to humans and devas.
Then the Bhagavān taught this Dharma discourse on gaining the three kinds of patience by chanting the following verses to the youth Candraprabha
“Those who do not argue Or speak unbeneficial word
But always bring benefit and maintain the Dharma, Such people are explained as having the first patience.
“Knowing that all phenomena are like illusions, Not having a conceptual field of experience
And not falling from the level of increasing wisdom Are distinctive qualities of the first patience.
“Being skilled in all the paths of the sūtras, Being wise and attracted to the Buddha’s words
And having the infinite awareness of the sugatas’ wisdom Are distinctive qualities of the first patience.
“Whatever Dharma taught by the Buddha they hear, They have no doubt about the Buddha’s teaching
But aspire to the Dharma of all the jinas. These are distinctive qualities of the first patience.
“They know the particular sūtra with the definitive meaning, Such as the Sugata’s teaching on emptiness
They know that all the Dharmas that teach Of beings, individuals, and persons are provisional truth.
“In this world there are many tīrthikas, But they feel no anger toward them
They are firmly established in compassion for them. These are distinctive qualities of the first patience.
“The retentions become apparent to them And they have no doubts concerning their appearance
What they speak is in accord with the truth. These are distinctive qualities of the first patience.
“The four elements of air and water, Fire and earth may change into something else
But they will never turn away from the enlightenment of buddhahood. These are distinctive qualities of the first patience.
“Whatever skills there are in the world, The bodhisattvas learn them all
And no one sees anyone higher than them. These are distinctive qualities of the first patience.
“They are unwavering through the power of śamatha, And through vipaśyanā they are like a mountain
Even all beings together would be unable to disturb them. These are distinctive qualities of the second patience.
“In meditation they stand and talk; Remaining in meditation they walk
In meditation they master the perfections. These are distinctive qualities of the second patience.
“In meditation they attain the five higher knowledges. Teaching the Dharma they go to a hundred realms
They do not lose their miraculous powers. These are distinctive qualities of the second patience.
“They remain in that kind of samādhi of peace. They attain certainty of the mind
And in their meditation there is no ‘being.’ These are distinctive qualities of the second patience.
“With buddha wisdom they teach the Dharma To all of the beings who are in the world
And they are able to remember all that they have taught. These are distinctive qualities of the second patience.
“They see the lords of the worlds in all directions: East, south, west, and north, Above, below, and in the intermediate directions
These are distinctive qualities of the third patience.
“They have a body that is the color of gold And emanate countless manifestations
Teaching the Dharma to many millions of beings. These are distinctive qualities of the third patience.
“Each such bodhisattva appears throughout This buddha realm of Jambudvīp
And is renowned also among the devas and asuras. These are distinctive qualities of the third patience.
“The bodhisattvas train in accordance With the field of activity of the buddha
And the conduct of the sugatas. These are distinctive qualities of the third patience.
“If the beings that are in this world Were to recite the praises of the bodhisattva
And they were to take great joy in that Then they would not be trained in the Buddha’s wisdom.
“If all the beings that are in this world Were to speak badly to the bodhisattvas
And if they were to become angry toward them, Then they would still not be trained in the Buddha’s wisdom.
“If they gain wealth it does not make them happy; If they do not gain wealth it does not make them unhappy
Their minds always remain like a mountain. These are distinctive qualities of the third patience.
“These three patiences are taught to be the patience regarding what is spoken, The patience that is beneficial for contemplation and meditation
And the patience, from listening to the Dharma, regarding birthlessness. These trainings are the path to enlightenment.
“When the bodhisattvas attain These three unsurpassable patiences
They see the supreme humans, the sugatas, And they give them the prophecy of their stainless enlightenment.
“When they have received that prophecy The earth shakes in six ways
The realm is illuminated by light, And millions of devas send down a rain of flowers.
“When they have received that prophecy Countless quintillions of being
Develop the aspiration to enlightenment, Thinking, ‘We also shall become jinas, worthy of offerings.’
They are not born, they do not die, They do not pass away, and are not reborn.
“When the bodhisattvas attain These three unsurpassable patience
They do not see beings born or dying, But see all phenomena as remaining in the true nature.
“In this way they know that they are untrue, That phenomena are like illusions, that they are naturally empty
Emptiness is not born and does not die. All these phenomena are by nature empty.
“Whenever someone shows them respect, Attending to them, honoring them, and making offerings
They take no pleasure in it, For they know that phenomena have an empty nature.
“Toward beings who revile, threaten, or beat them, They feel no anger, nor pride
They only feel constant love for them, Wishing for those beings to be liberated.
“Even when beaten and cut with sticks and stones, Those wise ones will feel no anger
Remaining in the patience of selflessness, And not having unyielding anger or pride.
“In this way they know the lack of reality, That phenomena are like illusions, with an empty nature
They remain in that knowledge of phenomena And are venerated by this world and its devas.
“Even toward beings holding weapons Who cut into pieces their body and limb
They would have no anger, And their love and compassion would not diminish.
“Toward such beings, while they are cutting up their body and limbs, This is what arises in their mind
‘Until I can bring these beings to enlightenment I will not pass into the peace of nirvāṇa.’
Continuously meditate throughout millions of eons With that kind of unsurpassable power of patience
“The bodhisattvas of great renow
Resting in the equanimity of the patience of selflessness.
“For even more eons, as many as Ganges sand grains, They do not accomplish benefit through the knowledge of a buddha
They do not reach enlightenment, Let alone the wisdom of the tathāgatas.
“Even if one were to speak for countless hundreds of eons, It would be difficult to conclude the praises
The endless descriptions, of the greatly renowned ones Who are established in the patience of selflessness.
“Therefore, the one who desires supreme, unsurpassable enlightenment, The accumulated wisdom of buddhahood
Should meditate on the patience praised by the jinas, And then supreme enlightenment will not be difficult to attain.”
Conclusion of seventh chapter, “The Attainment of Patience.
Then the Bhagavān said to the youth Candraprabha
should become skilled in the wisdom of the nonexistent nature of all phenomena
“Young man, what is being skilled in the wisdom of the nonexistent nature of all phenomena
know tha
all phenomena have no existence, have no essence
have no attributes, have no characteristics, have no origin, have no cessation
have no words, are empty, are primordial peace, and are pure by nature
“Young man, bodhisattva mahāsattvas who have become skilled in the wisdom of the nonexistent nature of all phenomen
do not have desire for any form, sound, smell, taste, or touch
They do not become angry. They are never ignorant
“Why is that? It is because they do not see phenomena
there is no object to perceive
the phenomena of desire, the desire, or the desirer
that which angers, the anger, or one who is angry
nor that of which one is ignorant, the ignorance, or the one who is ignorant
and therefore there is no such object to perceive
“Because there is nothing to be seen and there is no object to perceive
they have no attachment to anything in the three realm
and they will quickly attain this samādhi
and quickly attain the highest, complete enlightenment of perfect buddhahood
“On this topic, it has been said: “All phenomena have no existence
They are all devoid of attributes and without characteristics, Without birth and without cessation
That is how you should perfectly understand phenomena
“Everything is without existence, without words, Empty, peaceful, and primordially stainless
The one who knows phenomena, Young man, that one is called a buddha
“Therefore, the revealed nature of equality Is that all phenomena in essence have no nature
Whoever desires the mother of the sugatas Will attain this mother of the jinas
“Therefore, young man, that is what you should understand through this Dharma teaching
“Young man, in the past, countless, vast, immeasurable, inconceivable, unfathomable, asaṃkhyeya eons ago
at that time, in that time, there appeared in the world the Bhagavān, the tathāgata, the arhat, the perfectly enlightened Buddha Abhāva­samudgata
who was perfect in wisdom and conduct, a sugata
then at that time, young man, those bodhisattva mahāsattvas have become skilled in the wisdom of the nonexistent nature of all phenomena
“Young man, when Bodhisattva mahāsattvas know that all phenomena have no existence, have no essence
a knower of the world, an unsurpassable guide who tamed beings
a teacher of devas and humans, a buddha, and a bhagavān
“Young man, what do you think
Why was that tathāgata named Abhāva­samudgata
“Young man, as soon as he was born he rose in the air up to the height of seven palm trees, took seven steps, and said these words
All phenomena have arisen from nonexistence
From nonexistence have all phenomena arisen
“Young man, the sound of those words was heard in all the worlds in the trichiliocosm
It resounded and was heard by everyone from the devas on the earth up to those in Brahmā’s paradise
“When that bhagavān attained enlightenment
the words ‘arisen from nonexistence
sounded from the leaves of all the trees, from all the grass, bushes, and forests, and from the summits of all the mountains
Therefore he will be Abhāva­samudgata (Arisen from Nonexistence).’ Thus it was that the name Abhāva­samudgata arose
and that he was given the name Abhāva­samudgata
‘Oh, as soon as this tathāgata was born
he rose in the air up to the height of seven palm trees, took seven steps and said the word nonexistence
“Every sound in that world was heard as the words ‘arisen from nonexistence.
“Young man, at the time, attending the teachings of the Bhagavān, the tathāgata, the arhat, the perfectly enlightened Buddha Abhāva­samudgata
there was a young prince by the name of Mahā­karuṇā­cintin, who had an excellent body and was handsome and good-looking
“Young man, the prince went to the Bhagavān, the tathāgata, the arhat, the perfectly enlightened Buddha Abhāva­samudgat
and bowed his head to the Bhagavān’s feet
He circumambulated the Bhagavān three times and then sat down
Then the Bhagavān, the tathāgata, the arhat, the perfectly enlightened Buddha Abhāva­samudgata, knowing the higher motivation of Prince Mahā­karuṇā­cintin
taught him this samādhi
When he had heard this he had complete faith in it
With complete faith he shaved off his hair and beard, put on the orange robes
and with such faith left home for homelessness
Having entered homelessness he learned this samādhi
He learned it, kept it, read it, understood it
and dedicated himself to the practice of meditation on it
He served two hundred million buddhas
Through that root of merit, he did not fall into the lower existences for two hundred million eons
and he heard this samādhi from all those tathāgatas
Having heard it, he learned it and understood it
He kept it, read it, propagated it
and repeatedly meditated on it with unadulterated meditation, remaining dedicated to that practice of meditation
“Through those roots of merit, after twenty eons had passe
he appeared in the world as the Bhagavān, the tathāgata, the arhat, the perfectly enlightened Buddha Suvicinitārtha
He ripened countless beings and benefited countless beings, and afterward
like an extinguished flame, he passed away into perfect nirvāṇa
“Therefore, young man, this samādhi of that Dharma teaching should be cherished by bodhisattva mahāsattvas
It should be known to cause the unsurpassable perfect wisdom of buddhahood.
Then at that time the Bhagavā
gave a detailed teaching on the preceding chapter by chanting the following extensive verses to the youth Candraprabha
“I remember that countless eons ago In the past, there appeared a supreme human
One who benefited the world, a great rishi, And his name was Abhāva­samudgata.
“As soon as he was born he rose into the ai
And taught the nonexistence of all phenomena
He was at that time given a corresponding nameAnd his words were heard throughout the trichiliocosm.
“All the devas, they all called out, ‘He will be a jina named Abhāva
As soon as he was born he took seven steps And the Jina taught the nonexistence of phenomena.’
“When the sage became a buddha, a Dharma king, Who taught the nature of all phenomena
From plants, trees, bushes, mountains, and rocks There came the words ‘phenomena have no existence.’
“All the sounds there were in the world Became the words ‘all are nonexistent.
In that way there sounded The words of the Guide of the World.
“At that time there was a prince Whose name had always been Karuṇāvicintin
He had an excellent form and was handsome. He came into the presence of that jina.
“He bowed to the feet of the sage, that great being, And respectfully circumambulated him
In order to hear the stainless, unsurpassable Dharma He sat there with a devout mind.
“The heroic Jina, knowing his aspiration, Gave the teaching of this samādhi
Having listened to this stainless samādhi He quickly entered homelessness in the supreme Jina’s teaching.
“Having entered homelessness he possessed, Read, and understood this samādhi
For a full two hundred million eons He did not descend to an unfortunate existence.
“Through the good karma that he had made He pleased two hundred million buddhas
And in the presence of those jinas He cultivated this samādhi.
“He afterward became a buddha in the world Who was always known as Sucintitārtha
He benefited many millions of beings And afterward attained nirvāṇa, like an extinguished flame.
Conclusion of the eighth chapter, “Buddha Abhāva­samudgata.
Then the Bhagavān said to the youth Candraprabha
should hear this king of samādhis, in which the equality of the nature of all phenomena is reveale
and liberate all beings from the ocean of existenc
They should obtain it, preserve it, understand it
meditate on it with unadulterated meditation
recite it to others, promote it, proclaim it, chant it
promulgate it, and make it widely known to others
“Why is that
Young man, this king of samādhis, the revealed equality of the nature of all phenomena
has given birth to all the tathāgatas, the arhats, the perfectly enlightened buddhas
all tathāgatas, śrāvakas, and pratyekabuddhas have come from it
you also should obtain this king of samādhis, the revealed equality of the nature of all phenomena
It has been said
“Therefore, those who wish for enlightenment and buddhahood
And to liberate beings from the ocean of existence
Should obtain this sūtra praised by the buddhas
And then sublime enlightenment will not be difficult to attain.
Then the Bhagavān said to the youth Candraprabha
should become skilled in the patience of profound Dharma
“Young man, how do bodhisattva mahāsattvas become skilled in the patience of profound Dharma
“Young man, bodhisattva mahāsattvas should know that all phenomena are like illusions
all phenomena are like dreams, like mirages, like echoes, like optical illusions
like the moon on water, like hallucinations, like reflections, and like space
They should know tha
“Young man, when bodhisattva mahāsattvas know that all phenomena are like illusions
they are skilled in the patience of profound Dharma
Those who have the patience of profound Dharma have no desire for any phenomeno
that causes desire, have no anger toward any phenomenon that causes anger
and have no ignorance regarding any phenomenon that causes ignorance
Why is that? It is because they do not see that phenomenon; they do not perceive that phenomenon
They do not see the phenomena and they do not perceive the phenomena o
that which is desired, the desire, or the desirer
that which angers, the anger, or one who is angry
nor that of which one is ignorant, the ignorance, or the one who is ignorant
Because they do not see and do not perceive those phenomena they have no desire
they have no anger, they have no ignorance, their minds do not regress, and they rest in meditation
They are without conceptual elaboration
They have crossed over to the other side. They have reached dry land
They have reached safety. They have attained freedom from fear
They have correct conduct. They have knowledge
They have wisdom. They have merit
They have miraculous powers. They have memory
They have intelligence. They have realization
They have a sense of modesty. They have stability
They have bodhisattva conduct. They have the austerity of the disciplines of mendicancy
They are unblemished
They have nothing. They are arhats
Their defilements have ceased. They have no kleśas
They have power. Their minds are liberated
Their wisdom is liberated. They are thoroughbred stallions. They are great elephants
They have done what had to be done. They have accomplished what had to be accomplished
They have put down their burden. They have reached their goals
They have ended engagement with existence. They have liberated their minds through true knowledge
They are mendicants who have attained all the perfect, highest, complete powers of the mind
They are children of the buddhas. They are children of the Śākya
They know the Vedas. They are śrotriyas
They are brahmins. They are snātakas. They are masters of the Vedas
They have crushed the thorns. They have not left the law behind
They have left the trench barrier behind. They have crossed over the trench barrier. They have extracted the splinters
They have no illness. They are bhikṣus. They are free from all bondage
They have been born as humans. They are good humans. They are supreme humans
They are great humans. They are human lions. They are human elephants
They are human stallions. They are human carthorses. They are human heroes
They are human strongmen. They are human flowers. They are human lotuses
They are human white lotuses. They are human tamers. They are human moons
They are extraordinary humans. They are stainless humans.
Then the Bhagavān, in order to give this Dharma teaching on entering the patience of profound Dharma, recited these verses
“At one time a world appears, And later the entire world becomes space
As it was before, so it is afterward. Know that all phenomena are like that.
“All that there is in this world Later dissolves into the mass of water below
As it is below, so it is above. Know that all phenomena are like that.
“Just as in a completely cloudless sky In an instant a mass of clouds appears
From where did they first originate? Know that all phenomena are like that.
“If you think of a tathāgata who has passed into nirvāṇa, His image will appear in your mind
As he was before, so he is afterward. Know that all phenomena are like that.
“When a person sees a mass of foam That is carried along in a rive
And examines it, they see that it has no essence. Know that all phenomena are like that.
“When large drops of rain fall, There appear separate bubbles of water
They vanish as they appear; the bubbles have no existence. Know that all phenomena are like that.
“When a letter is sent to another town With news of the good or bad that has been done
A voice does not accompany the letter. Know that all phenomena are like that.
“When a man is intoxicated from alcohol, He perceives the ground to be spinning
But the earth is not moving or shaking. Know that all phenomena are like that.
“A woman sees her beautified face On the surface of a mirror or a bowl of oil
The fool feels passion for it And runs in search for the desired.
“The face was not transferred there. The face will never be found in the reflection
And yet fools have desire for it. Know that all phenomena are like that.
“Just like optical illusions and fata morganas, Just like dreams and just like illusions
When their attributes are meditated on, their nature is empty. Know that all phenomena are like that.
“When the moon is in a clear sky, Its reflection appears on the sea
But the moon has not moved onto the water. Know that all phenomena are like that.
“A man who is inside a canyo
Sees no one but hears the echoes Of singing, speaking, and laughter. Know that all phenomena are like that.
“Echoes are produced By songs, music, and weeping
But the song that is heard does not exist. Know that all phenomena are like that.
“Although pleasures are enjoyed in a dream, When the person awakes they are not be seen
The fool, though, becomes attached to those pleasures. Know that all phenomena are like that.
“A magician causes forms to appear, Creating horses, elephants, chariots, and so on
But though they appear they do not exist at all. Know that all phenomena are like that.
“In a young woman’s dream She gives birth to a son and then sees him die
She is happy when he’s born and sad when he dies. Know that all phenomena are like that.
“In the night the reflection of the moon Appears on clear, undisturbed water
But it is empty of a moon and there is nothing to grasp. Know that all phenomena are like that.
“A thirsty person traveling At noon during the summe
Sees a lake that is a mirage. Know that all phenomena are like that.
“The water that is a mirage cannot be found. Foolish beings want to drink it
But water that is not real cannot be drunk. Know that all phenomena are like that.
“When a person in search of its essence Pulls apart the trunk of a green banana plant
They find no essence either inside or outside. Know that all phenomena are like that.
“The eyes, the ears, and the nose are unreliable. The tongue, the body, and the mind are unreliable
If the senses could be relied upon, What need would there be for the path of the noble ones?
“These senses are unreliable. Their nature is material and neutral
Therefore those who wish for the path to nirvāṇa Must follow the path of the noble ones.
“If one examines the body back into the past, There is no body and no conception of a body
When there is no body and no conception of a body This is called the lineage of the noncomposite.
“There are no phenomena in the phenomena of nirvāṇa, For if it is nonexistent there could never be an existence
Those who conceptualize teach existence and nonexistence, But practicing in that way will not bring an end to suffering.
“ ‘Existing,’ ‘not existing,’ and both are extremes. ‘Pure’ and ‘impure’ are also extremes
Therefore, rejecting both extremes, The wise do not even remain in the middle.
“ ‘Existing’ and ‘not existing’ are in conflict. ‘Pure’ and ‘impure’ are also in conflict
When there is conflict, suffering cannot be ended. When there is no conflict, suffering ceases.
“When fools speak about remaining in mindfulness They become proud, saying, ‘I have witnessed it in my body.
But those who have witnessed it in their body have no pride; They are those who are freed from all such pride.
“When speaking of the four dhyānas, The foolish claim they can experience dhyāna
But those who know and realize that dhyāna Is without kleśas or pride reject such arrogance.
“When speaking of the four truths, The foolish say that they see the truth
But there is no pride when the truth is seen. The Jina taught the truth that is without pride.
“Do not be proud of maintaining correct conduct. Do not become proud through listening to the Dharma
When those with little wisdom become proud, That is the root of increasing suffering.
“The world’s guide, the omniscient one, Taught that pride is the root of suffering
To be puffed up with pride makes suffering grow; To have no pride brings suffering to an end.
“However much Dharma you have learned, If you feel proud of your learning and let your proper conduct lapse
Your misconduct will take you to the lower realms And all that great learning will not protect you.
“If you feel proud of being renowned for correct conduct And do not dedicate yourself to listening to many teachings
When the results of your correct conduct have been used up You will afterward experience suffering.
“If you meditate on a worldly samādhi And do not eliminate the conception of a self
Then the kleśas will arise once more, As happened in the samādhi practice of Udraka.
“If one examines the Dharma of selflessness, And if after examining, one meditates
That will be the cause resulting in the attainment of nirvāṇa. It is impossible for peace to come from any other cause.
“If a man is being attacked by bandits And, wishing to save his life, he tries to run awa
But his legs will not move and he cannot run, He will be captured and killed by the bandits.
“In the same way, a stupid person without correct conduct May try to escape from composite phenomena
But without correct conduct he is not able to flee, And will be killed by old age, illness, and death.
“Just as many thousands of savages Do you harm in various ways
The kleśas will in many ways, Like savages, destroy that which is good.
“Those who have understood the skandhas to be without a self, Even if insulted or beaten, will not be dismayed
They will not fall under the power of the kleśa demons. Those who know emptiness will never become agitated.
“Many people teach the emptiness of the skandhas But have not understood that selflessness
When those who have not understood are contradicted by others, They will be overpowered by anger and speak harsh words.
“There was a man who was ill and suffering physically. For many years he could not attain freedom from his illness
For a long time he was tormented by his illness, And in order to be cured he went in search of a physician.
“Searching and searching, again and again, He found a skilled and wise physicia
Who had compassion for him And said, ‘Take this medicine.’
“He gave him much excellent medicine, But the sick man didn’t take the healing medicine
That was not the fault of the physician or the medicine; It was the fault of the sick person.
“In the same way, those who have entered homelessness in this teaching, Who know of the strengths, the dhyānas, and the power
But do not dedicate themselves to meditation, Are not endeavouring in what is correct, so how could they attain nirvāṇa?
“All phenomena are always empty by nature. The heirs of the jinas have eliminated all things
The entirety of existence has always been empty. The emptiness of the tīrthikas is limited.
“The wise do not argue with fools, They politely avoid them
Thinking, ‘They come to me with malicious intent,’They do not engage with the Dharma of fools.
“Knowing the nature and dispositions of fools, The wise do not associate with fools
Whenever they associate well with them Those fools eventually turn into enemies.
“The wise do not depend upon the foolish. The wise and the foolish have different natures
The nature of the foolish is naturally contrary, So the wise do not have ordinary people as friends.
“They may speak with words about the Dharma But do not believe it, showing their anger and aggression
Such is the Dharma of fools, and knowing this to be so The wise do not rely on it.
“The foolish are in accord with other fools Like impurity with other impurities
The wise are in accord with other wise people Like butter is with ghee.
“They do not examine the faults of saṃsāra; They pay no attention to the ripening of karma
They have no faith in the words of the buddhas: Those fools will be sliced and cut into pieces.
“They have obtained a human life that is difficult to obtain, But they have not become skilled in any craft
They have become poor without any wealth. In order to have a livelihood they become mendicants.
“Having become mendicants in this teaching of the Buddha, They become attached to their robes and alms bowls
They fall under the influence of bad companions, And they do not practice the teaching of the Sugata.
“They are not observant of their own conduct. Such fools do not perceive the states of their minds
Day and night they do not follow the discipline, And they do not abhor the path of bad actions.
“They do not restrain their body and mind. There is nothing that they will not say
They are always looking for faults in others, And criticize any mistake they make.
“Such fools have attachment to food. They know no limit to their eating
They obtain their food through the Buddha’s merit, But these fools do not keep that in mind.
“When they find food that is delicious and pleasing, They consume it without engaging in the discipline
For them that food becomes poison, Like an unclean lotus stem for an elephant calf.
“The wise, the sagacious, the realized Also eat food that is pure and pleasing
But they have no attachment to it. They eat without clinging, maintaining the discipline.
“The wise, sagacious, and realized Say ‘welcome’ when the foolish come
Bringing them closer with pleasant words, And maintaining compassion for them;
“They are kind and helpful to them. But the foolish are happy when harm comes to the wise
Because of such faults, the wise avoid the foolish And live alone like deer in the forest.
“The wise, knowing these kinds of defects, Do not associate with fools
They think, ‘If I depend on those who have no wisdom, There will be no higher rebirth, let alone the attainment of enlightenment.’
“The wise reach enlightenment by putting into practice The samādhi of dwelling in love
Of dwelling in compassion, of acting with joy, And with constant equanimity toward all existences.
“They attain the enlightenment that is peace, free of misery. They perceive beings afflicted by illness and aging
They have compassion toward them, And give them the teachings of ultimate truth.
“Who can know the true nature of the jinas And the truth of the sugatas, which is beyond description
It is they who hear this kind of Dharma And attain the immaterial patience of the noble ones.”
Conclusion of the ninth chapter, “The Patience of the Profound Dharma.
The Bhagavān then said to the youth Candraprabha
Why is that
Young man, bodhisattva mahāsattvas who make practice essentia
will not even find it difficult to attain the highest, complete enlightenment of perfect buddhahood, not to mention attaining this samādhi.
Then the youth Candraprabha rose from his seat
removed his robe from one shoulder, and, kneeling on his right knee
with palms placed together, bowed toward the Bhagavān and exclaimed
“Bhagavān, that teaching and instruction that the bhagavāns have taught well
presented well, and explained well to the bodhisattva mahāsattvas
the entire bodhisattva training that they have explained well and presented well is marvelous
“Bhagavān, this is the scope of activity of the tathāgatas
not of the śrāvakas or pratyekabuddhas, let alone the tīrthikas
“Bhagavān, I, too, will make practice essential, and without care for life or body I shall train as the tathāgatas have
Why is that
Bhagavān, I wish to train as the tathāgatas have
Bhagavān, I wish to attain the highest, complete enlightenment of perfect buddhahood
Bhagavān, I wish to eliminate the evil māras
Bhagavān, I wish to free all beings from all fear and all suffering
I pray that the Bhagavān will place his right hand upon my head.
He said to the Bhagavān
“You have an excellent body, like a clear sky
You are the son of wisdom, who has no body or attributes
You are a deep ocean of qualities, and have compassion
You who are without equal, place your hand upon my head.
{i} The Bhagavān placed upon Candraprabha’s head his right hand, which was adorned with many characteristics that were the result of many roots of merit, and which was of the color of divine gold
As soon as the Bhagavān placed his right hand upon Candraprabha’s head, in that very instant
to Candraprabha, such as the heroic, the treasury of space, the vajra-like, the speed of the mind, the revealing of all forms
the ultimate absence of obscurations, the revealing of all tathāgatas, the consecration of all emptiness, and so on
more indescribable than indescribably many hundred thousand quintillions of samādhi entranceways that arise from the perfection of wisdom were revealed t
Many entranceways to dhāraṇīs and liberations were revealed
He attained the knowledge of the joy and happiness that is described by the noble ones
of the countless vast number of beings in the deva realms
and the scope of experience of the buddhas and bodhisattvas
It was said
The Bhagavān placed upon the head of the youth Candraprabh
Which was beautified by being webbed, and had markings of a vase and hook, A knot of eternity, a wheel, a victory banner, a flag, and fishes. {ii
The hand that for many millions of eons had given away jewels
Then Candraprabha, full of joy and happiness and the knowledge of the countless, vast number of beings in the deva realms, and the scope of experience of the buddhas and bodhisattvas
rose from his seat, removed his robe from one shoulder, and, kneeling on his right knee
with palms placed together, he bowed toward the Bhagavān and recited these appropriate verses of praise
“I pay homage to you, the unsurpassable provider of freedom from fear
I pay homage to you, a loving friend of beings who benefits others
I pay homage to you, who possess the power of truth and the ten strength
I pay homage to you, who are the equal of the unequaled tathāgatas. {iii
“I pay homage to you, the Lord who has the highest compassion
I pay homage to you, the hero who has subjugated the four enemies
I pay homage to you, who know the benefits of sublime diligence
I pay homage to you, the Lord who has the supreme dharmakāya. {iv
The Jina who is a sun shining in the center of the vast sky of wisdom, Dispelling darkness with the light of love and compassion
And who is the teacher of the extremely profound Dharma of the ultimate truth.” {v
“I will always go for refuge to you, Lord
When the youth Candraprabha had recited these appropriate verses of praise to the Bhagavā
he said to him, “Bhagavān, so that you may show me your compassio
I pray that you, with your saṅgha of bodhisattvas and saṅgha of bhikṣus, will assent to eat your meal tomorrow at my home
“I pray to the Lord of men and your sons That you eat a pure meal at my home
Lord of sages, in order to show me your compassion, Chief of devas, give your assent.” {vi
The Bhagavān, because of his compassion
together with his saṅgha of bodhisattvas and saṅgha of bhikṣu
at the home of the youth Candraprabha
by remaining silent assented to eat a mea
The youth Candraprabha, knowing that the Bhagavān had assented by his silence
rose from his seat, removed his robe from one shoulder, bowed his head to the Bhagavān’s feet
circumambulated the Bhagavān three times, and departed from the Bhagavān’s presence
The youth Candraprabha then went down from Vulture Peak Mountain
and at that time he perfectly adorned the entire road in between Vulture Peak Mountain and the great city of Rājagṛha
As an offering to the Bhagavān he cleared a great, wide roadwa
so that it was free of grass, tree stumps, thorns, stones, pebbles, and gravel, and spread pure sand over it
so that it was as soft and pleasant to the touch as down, and made a pleasant sound
He covered it with flowers from all seasons
such as divine blue lotuses, red lotuses, night lotuses, white lotuses
water lilies, kachnar flowers, sambac jasmines, magnolias
bignonias, star jasmines, sesame flowers, ironwood flowers, and aśoka flowers
Parasols, banners, flags, flags of victory, precious arches, and canopies were set up along the road
There were precious censers from which flowed the smoke of black agarwood
precious arches, and canopies were set up along the road
Arranged in different places were dancers and performers skilled in performing divine songs, dance, and music
Beautifully adorned men, women, boys, and girl
were arranged holding paṇava drums, one-stringed lutes, lutes, flutes, mṛdaṅga drums, mukunda drums, and muraja drum
On both sides of the road tall palm trees were adorned with various divine jewels and a jingling network of bells made from Jambu River gold
There were many hundred thousand quintillions of pillars made of precious materials
and different kinds of trees of various heights and thicknesses made from the seven jewels, and on which were arranged the leaves
flowers, and fruits of all seasons
Canopies, parasols, and flags were erected. The sound of music was perfectly played
And similarly there was the beautiful sound of songs. {vii
That perfect road was excellently adorne
“The Buddha, the moon of sages, the compassionate one Is coming to this pure excellent city.
On hearing that, young Candraprabha with great faith Perfectly adorned a great, vast road. {ix
He spread out pure, divine sand And scattered perfect, beautiful flowers
By many women performing dances, Many millions of various excellent cloths, And beautiful, excellent garlands of flowers. {viii
The road was excellently adorned in various ways
He also set up precious pillars And made the road as beautiful as a divine city. {x
Young Candraprabha, with immense joy, Perfectly adorned the road in various ways
Devas, asuras, and nāgas, upon seeing it Were astonished and cried out, “Ha ha ha!” {xi
To the left and right of the road there were placed Tall, excellent, round palm trees made of Jambu River gold
Decorated and beautified by a network Of numerous jingling, precious bells. {xii
Similarly arranged were million of precious tree
Adorned by blossomed flowers of all seasons, Which were beautiful adornments for that vast road
Like a blissful park in the deva realms. {xiii
Pillars that were made from precious materials, With beautiful strings of beads that shone like light
An indescribable sight, huge and vast— Were set up and arranged on the left and right of the road. {xiv
The Buddha, the Lord of the three worlds, Traveled on that road to the capital city
That great road was adorned in that way So that it was beautiful in every way. {xv
On the right and left, precious censers were hung. They were filled with black agarwood
From all the censers there formed a cloud of smoke, With divine, pleasant aromas of various kinds. {xvi
The youth Candraprabha, for the sake of the Jina, Arranged vast, incalculable ornaments of divine materials
From the entrance to the water well of the city Up to the king of mountains, Gṛdhrakūṭa. {xvii
Young Candraprabha adorned the road with many different precious arrangements
Then young Candraprabha descended from Vulture Pea
and went to the great city of Rājagṛha, to his tall, vast, great, divine home
He reached there and he entered his home
He spent that night preparing a great amount of excellent, delicious food and drink
and creating food that had a hundred flavors
Then he sprinkled well the ground in the great city of Rājagṛh
and swept it clean, scattered flower petals, perfumed it with incense
put up canopies, hung ribbons and wreaths of silk, and set up parasols, banners, and flags
In that way he made the main road of Rājagṛha up to the town free of stones, pebbles, and gravel
scattered it with various flowers, and sprinkled it with sandalwood powder
He adorned the windows, porticoes, doors, roofs, lattices, and the crescent moons, and perfumed them with sandalwood
In that way he adorned the city of Rājagṛha with countless display
and adorned his own house, too, with a variety of many adornments
He hung it with many precious strings of beads
He adorned it with the raiment of the Tuṣita deities and also beautified the grounds
He had many kinds of garlands and wreaths put up as adornments
He arranged a hundred thousand precious seats
In order to make offerings to the Bhagavā
he placed in their center a lion throne of divine materials that surpassed the work of devas and humans
In the four directions he hung censers made of various precious materials
from which flowed the smoke of black agarwood
In that way the youth Candraprabha arranged his excellent hom
so that for the enjoyment of the Bhagavān there was the sound of divine songs, performances, and music; pure parasols and banners were erected
an audience of a hundred thousand devas, nāgas, yakṣas
gandharvas, asuras, garūḍas, kiṃnaras, mahoragas, humans, and nonhumans thronged it
and it was filled with many various kinds of precious flowers
Candraprabha perfectly, extensively adorned His vast and excellent home
In the center he placed a lion throne of divine materials Where the lamp of the world would sit. {xviii
Where the saṅgha of the lamp of the world, The Lord of jinas, would sit. {xix
He perfectly set out countless millions Of extremely precious, beautiful seat
Censers made of all kinds of precious materials, Completely filled with agarwood
Were hung in all directions, And from them a beautiful aroma spread. {xx
Candraprabha, in order to attain the ten strengths
Spread throughout the entire excellent grounds of the house Various kinds of beautiful, precious flowers— A multitude of excellent, aromatic flowers. {xxi
The sound of dancers, singers, and of music Filled the entire excellent house with sound
He erected also parasols and banners So that the house was intensely beautiful, like that of a deity. {xxii
The vast excellent home of the youth Candraprabha Was adorned by a multitude of young people
It was filled with many nāgas, yakṣas, and asuras, And was gazed upon by many hundreds of devas. {xxiii
The young man Candraprabha, having adorned the great city of Rājagṛh
and having perfectly beautified his own home, after the night was over
in the early morning, departed, accompanied by the music of hundreds of various kinds of instrument
with many millions of parasols, banners, and flags held high
and with an encircling vanguard of a great assembly of eight million quintillion bodhisattvas, their cupped hands filled with divine coral tree flowers
Among them were bodhisattvas with one life remaining, such as Avalokiteśvara
Mahā­sthāma­prāpta, Gandhahasti, Ratnaketu
Dundubhisvara, Durabhisambhava, Mañjuśrī Kumārabhūta
Vīrasena, Subāhu, Ratnakusuma
Amoghadarśin, Maitreya, and others
accompanied by many adorned horses and elephants without riders that were being led along
with an assembly of countless people of the country
his own cupped hands filled with divine coral tree flowers
“Oh, the bodhisattva’s great power! The bodhisattva’s great miracles! The bodhisattva’s great manifestations
and they were accompanied by the enchanting, beautiful, harmonious sound of the laughter of the deities as they cried
The bodhisattva’s—a la la!
He came out through the hot springs gateway of the great city of Rājagṛh
and went toward Vulture Peak Mountain, and to the Bhagavān
When he arrived, he bowed his head to the Bhagavān’s feet
circumambulated the Bhagavān three times
sprinkled the divine coral tree flowers that filled his cupped hands over the Bhagavān
Maitreya and the other bodhisattva mahāsattvas bowed their heads to the Bhagavān’s feet
circumambulated the Bhagavān three times
sprinkled the divine coral tree flowers that filled their cupped hands over the Bhagavān, and also sat down to one side
Then the youth, who had sat to one side, rose from his seat
removed his robe from one shoulder, and, kneeling on his right knee
with palms placed together bowed toward the Bhagavān and said
“It is midday, Bhagavān, the time to eat
If the Bhagavān considers the time has come
then together with the saṅgha of bodhisattvas, the saṅgha of bhikṣus
Sugata, it is midday
who are widely renowned for their great power and have great influence
“I have adorned well the entire, excellent city
And similarly, Lord, my garden. I have prepared and laid out divine food with a hundred flavors
As it is midday, I pray to the Sugata to arise. {xxiv
“Supreme Rishi, you who hold the qualities of the ten strengths in your hands, Encircled by the assembly of your sons, come to the city
I pray that you, the illuminating sun who dispels darkness, will arise. Bhagavān, the time has come for the midday meal in my garden. {xxv
“I pray that you come, with your sons, to my garden. You will benefit an assembly of many beings
Just as Dīpaṃkara granted a prophecy to you, Grant me likewise a direct prophecy in this world. {xxvi
“When I have heard that prophecy in this world, I will also develop a vast and perfect aspiration, And all these beings will become buddhas
come to the great city of Rājagṛha, as the time has come to eat the midday meal in my garden
and the devas, nāgas, yakṣas, gandharvas, asuras, rishis, garūḍas, kiṃnaras, mahoragas, kumbhāṇḍas, pretas, pūtanas, humans, and nonhumans who have great power
There are no unworthy beings present here. {xxvii
“Arise, arise, Lord who has the ten strengths. Benefit me and come to my garden
Just as you come to my garden, In that way I will go to the supreme tree of enlightenment. {xxviii
“When I have gone to the foot of the supreme tree of enlightenment, I will remain there unshakable and unwavering
I will defeat with love the māras and their claws, And just as you attained it, I, too, will attain enlightenment.” {xxix
Then the Bhagavān, who had known what the youth Candraprabha would request, addressed these lines of verse to him
“Arise Candraprabha, son of the jinas
Arise, you who are joyful in generosity, you supreme being! Arise, you who have compassion and firm conduct
Let us go to the meal! Let us proceed to your home.” {xxx
After speaking these lines, the Bhagavān arose from his seat
He put on his lower robe, picked up his Dharma robe and alms bowl
and with the great saṅgha of a hundred thousand bhikṣus, and accompanied by a multitude of bodhisattva mahāsattvas, he proceeded
Through his great buddha powers, his great buddha miracles
rishis, garūḍas, kiṃnaras, mahoragas, kumbhāṇḍas, pretas, pūtanas, humans, and nonhuman
devas, nāgas, yakṣas, gandharvas, asuras
Many hundreds of thousands o
made offerings to him and praised him
his great buddha manifestations, and his buddha conduct he radiated many quintillions of light rays
He emanated flocks of melodious, soft, and beautiful birds of many different shapes and colors
so that like devas in the sky, each with its own song, they emitted the sound of music
such as geese, cranes, ruddy shelducks, swans, partridges, peacocks, rollers, parrots, mynas, cuckoos, avadavats, and snipe
waving millions of pieces of cloth, crying out, “Ha! Ha! Ha!” and sending down a great rain of flowers
In order to make offerings to the Bhagavān they filled the entire sky without leaving any spac
offered many quintillions of huge, vast censers made of various divine precious materials
with handles of beryl, sapphire, crystal, and white coral
in lines marching in front, holding in their hands many streamers and precious garlands
The horses and elephants, even though they were being led along without riders
were proceeding magnificently and emitting beautiful cries
The Bhagavān was accompanied on his right-hand side by Brahmā
who was making offerings to him and attending upon him
and on his left-hand side by Śakra, lord of the devas, and by countless devas with great power
who were renowned for their great power, who were mighty and illustrious
and whose bodies were adorned by excellent divine crowns, ornamented anklets, earrings, bracelets, flowers on their ears, bejeweled necklaces, and flower garlands
Their forms were made visibl
They were playing hundreds of thousands of different kinds of musical instruments
precious garlands, precious agarwood, and precious fruit
sambac jasmine, star jasmine, ironwood flowers, red lotuses, night lotuses, white lotuses, water lilies
and they were holding coral tree flowers, asters, orchids, hibiscus, amaranths, magnolias, karnikara flowers, aśoka flowers, bignonias, kachnar flowers, blue lotuses, medlar flowers
There were the superior kings of great power, renowned as having great power
from their own regions, accompanied by many divisions of perfectly adorned horses and elephants being led without their riders, chariots, and infantry
filled with uragasāra sandalwood, gośīrṣa sandalwood, vetiver, yellow sandalwood, Malaya sandalwood, red sandalwood, agarwood, and so on, and from which smoke flowed
The yakṣa lords Surūpa, Indraketu, Vikaṭa, Bakula, Pāñcika, Śākyavardhana, and many quintillions of yakṣa lords holding pestles with both hands
and sent down a great rain of flowers, incense, garlands, perfumes, powders, and jewels
The Bhagavān entered at midday the great city of Rājagṛha through the hot springs gateway
The nature of this is described in these verses
The Tathāgata Buddha, knowing it was time, That hero adorned with all qualities
Who illuminates countless realms, The Bhagavān, the lion of men, set forth. {xxxi
Avalokiteśvara, Mahā­sthāma­prāpta, and Amoghadarśin; Gandhahasti, Ratnakusuma, and Ratnabāhu
On his right was Ajita, who is named Maitraka, Who has the wealth of infinite qualities
Who will become the following buddha And has completed the accumulation of merit and wisdom. {xxxiii
And Ratnaketu, Durabhisambhava, Vīrasena, And others followed in the Jina’s footsteps. {xxxii
He is one who has cultivated love, rejoicing, and equanimity. He is a great being of the Dharma who has developed compassion
The thousand buddhas less four, {xxxv
was followed by those who will be Those with great realization in the Good Eon
While born in divine bodies that were like beautiful moonlight
That hero Candraprabha was also present at the front. To the left of the one with supreme compassio
Was Mañjuśrī, along with many thousands of millions Of heroes who have sublime qualities of miraculous powers, {xxxvii
He understands the infinite qualities, the qualities of the Lord of sages. {xxxiv
He followed behind the compassionate Sugata An
Who were preceded by Maitraka. And also he who in the past, in this city of Rājagṛha
Made infinite offerings to jinas throughout eons, {xxxvi
Who traveled to endless hundreds of realms. Following him were those in the śrāvaka saṅgha
Śārisuta, Maudgalyāyana, Kāla, Kāśyapa, Subhūti, Nanda, and Kapphiṇa; {xxxviii
Bhadrikarāja, and similarly Kauṇḍinya; Ānanda, and similarly Sthavira Rāhula
And Svāgata, Kañcika, Pūrṇa, Udāyin, Revata, Kauṣṭhila, Upāli, and Aniruddha. {xxxix
A full nine thousand of those with matted hair Followed behind the śrāvaka saṅgha
They were all mighty ascetics who knew the Vedas and the rituals, And had mastered curses, renunciation, and beneficial incantations. {xl
Self-controlled rishis with peaceful minds, With disciplined minds, bowing with palms together
Followed behind the Buddha, the lamp of the world, The lion of men, endowed with compassion, {xli
The liberator of thousands of beings, as he proceeded
Like the completely pure lord of the host of stars, The full moon of the last month of autumn, The Teacher who is without equal was encircled {xlii
By many hundred thousands of Brahmās. As he stepped on the threshold of the city’s gateway
The earth and its thick forests shook. The devas, asuras, and mahoragas {xliii
Scattered excellent flowers and supreme incense. {xliv
The moment the Bhagavān placed his right foot, adorned by a precious wheel from the accumulation of countless roots of merit
upon the threshold of the gate, this universe of a thousand million worlds shook in six ways
It trembled, trembled strongly, and trembled intensely
it quivered, quivered strongly, and quivered intensely
it shook, shook strongly, and shook intensely
it shuddered, shuddered strongly, and shuddered intensely
it quaked, quaked strongly, and quaked intensely
the east sank and the west rose
the west sank and the east rose
the north sank and the south rose
the south sank and the north rose
the perimeter sank and the center rose, and the center sank and the perimeter rose
A great radiance shone in the world, and countless, numberless other amazing, wonderful, miraculous manifestations appeared
The nature of this is described in these verses
When the Guide came to that supreme city And placed his supreme foot upon the gateway’s threshold
That magnificence caused this earth to shake, And the beings in this supreme city were overjoyed.
The people who were hungry and thirsty At that time became free of the need to eat or drink
They became free of hunger and thirst.
When the Jina placed his foot on the gateway’s threshol
When the Jina placed his foot on the gateway’s threshold All those people who were blind, Deaf, and had no protector and little meri
Were all able to see and hear.
When the Jina placed his foot on the gateway’s threshold All the pretas in the realm of Yama
Suffering greatly and eating snot and spit, Were touched by light and became happy.
When the Jina placed his foot on the gateway’s threshold The supreme trees—the sal and the karnikara— At the summit of crags and on mountaintops
They all bowed toward the Buddha.
When the Jina placed his foot on the gateway’s threshold The entire ground shook in six ways Throughout the villages and towns as far as the ocean
Without causing harm to anyone.
Devas, humans, kumbhāṇḍas, and rākṣasas— Wherever beings lived, there was happiness and joy
They developed faith in supreme, sublime enlightenment And held a parasol for the guide of the world.
When the Jina placed his foot on the gateway’s threshold, Thousands of musical instruments sounded without being played
Hearing the beautiful sound of music, All beings were filled with joy.
Hundreds of thousands of trees bowed down, And all flowers blossomed at that time
Hundreds of thousands of devas in the sky Made nonhuman offerings to the Jina.
When the Jina placed his foot on the gateway’s threshold, Hundreds of bulls lowed with joy
The kings of horses and elephants raised their bodies; The lions, the kings of animals, roared.
The kings, the rulers, however many there were, Came from the cardinal and intermediate directions
When they saw the glorious majesty of the Jina, With minds filled with joy they bowed to him.
Some praised the Lord of the World; Some scattered a rain of flowers on the Jina
Some placed their ten fingers together in homage, And they cried, “Oh, the Jina, compassionate one!”
Some scattered excellent strings of pearls And various ornaments that give rise to joy
And some scattered clothing and jewels. They developed the supreme, unequaled aspiration to enlightenment.
Some scattered excellent meshes of gold; Some also scattered mukhaphullaka adornments
Some scattered excellent ornaments of gold, And some, likewise, scattered anklets.
Some scattered excellent bracelets, Some scattered armlets inset with jewels
And some aspired to enlightenment, scattering excellent Pieces of cloth, saying, “May we become buddhas!”
When the Lord of the World stood in the gateway, Some people scattered golden necklaces
Some with minds filled with faith scattered excellent crest jewels; Some scattered networks of jewels.
Those beings who were in extreme suffering, Tormented by many kinds of miseries
All attained happiness through the majesty Of the Guide, the supreme human.
Cuckoos, mynas, and peacocks, And similarly cranes and other water birds
All the flocks of birds were in the sky Emitting their beautiful, perfect songs.
Desire, anger, and ignorance Ceased in whoever heard The sweet, beautiful songs Of those flocks of joyous birds.
The millions of beings who heard that joyful sound All attained the patience that is concordant with the Dharm
The Sugata gave them all this prophecy: “You will in the future become buddhas.”
At that time the kleśas did not arise, And everyone was respectful to the Dharma king.
They wondered, “When will we attain this kind of wisdom?” And the Jina, knowing that, gave them their prophecies.
From each pore of the Sugata There shone hundreds of thousands of light ray
And more, as many as there are sand grains in the Ganges— It would not be possible to perceive all their attributes.
At that time, the sunlight did not shine. Nor was there light from jewels, fire, or the devas
There was no other light at that time When there was the splendor of the Buddha entering the city.
When with that great assembly the Sugata proceeded on the path, Wherever the feet of the one with the ten strengths tro
There appeared from the ground a hundred thousand lotuses That were pure and had ten thousand million petals.
When the Guide entered the supreme city, At that time there was no dirt or refuse
Throughout the entire city there arose The lovely aroma of the most fragrant incense.
The entire city and its streets were purified. They had no stones or gravel and were sprinkled with perfum
And bestrewn with the petals of various kinds of flowers. That is the kind of merit the one with ten strengths had.
When a hundred thousand yakṣas with ferocious minds Saw the Buddha, the Lord of men who was like gold
They felt an immense love for the Guide And took refuge in the Buddha, Dharma, and Saṅgha.
All of the million millions of devas Who had come to see the Lord of me
Let fall a rain of flowers on the Sugata. They scattered flowers while in the middle of the sky.
The flowers scattered by humans for the Jina Formed a parasol of flowers in the sky
The flowers scattered by the devas Were strewn on the ground as divine flowers.
The devas, humans, kumbhāṇḍas, and rākṣasas Never tired of gazing upon him
When they saw the Lord with the ten strengths, They were overjoyed and felt the highest delight.
When they saw the body of the supreme being, All beings were overjoyed and delighted
They did not even think of the divine flowers, Which did not seem at all wonderful.
Brahmā upon the right of the one with ten strengths, Śakra, the king of the devas, on his left
And the many millions of deities in the middle of the sky Showed great veneration to the supreme being.
Devas and asuras encircled the Jina, Who eclipsed all the majesty of devas and humans
With the soles of his feet making patterns on the ground, The invited Bhagavān entered into the city.
His body was beautified by excellent primary signs, Like the firmament filled with stars
The Buddha shone upon the king’s road Like the full moon in the sky.
Just as an excellent, pure, precious jewel That is free of all impurities shine
So that a pure light goes in all directions, In that way the Jina illuminated the entire world.
Devas and asuras encircled the Jina. The supreme human who entered Rājagṛh
With the soles of his feet leaving patterns on the ground, The Buddha, came to the home of the youth Candraprabha.
The supreme city was perfectly adorned, Millions of banners had been erected
The entire ground was anointed with the best perfumes, And beautiful summer flowers were scattered.
When the Sugata spoke to teach With compassion for the people in the streets
The Jina manifested emanations That taught to them the excellent Dharma of the Buddha.
When the hundreds of thousands of beings heard that, They prayed for the supreme wisdom of the Buddha
Wondering, “When will I attain this kind of wisdom?” Knowing their thoughts, the Jina prophesied to them.
They had invited the Jina, the Lord of men, And there was no limit to the offerings they made.
There were those who aspired to attain That inconceivable supreme attainment
He who wishes to benefit beings, Whom it is difficult to see in saṃsāra.”
There were those who developed an excellent aspiration, Thinking, “I will tomorrow invite the compassionate one
Some who were upon the roofs Developed the sublime
Beautifully adorned body of the one with the ten strengths.
supreme aspiration to enlightenment And they scattered divine flowers on the handsome
Some developed the supreme, highest aspiration And scattered garlands of magnolias
Kachnar flowers, the scents of summer, And wreaths of silken ribbons.
Some stood, holding excellent flowers, Their bodies perfectly beautified by their raiment
They held various flowers and wreaths of silk That they cast in the direction of the Jina with great power.
Some scattered red lotuses, night lotuses, Blue lotuses, and excellent golden flowers
Some scattered precious flowers, And some scattered sandalwood powder.
When the Guide entered the supreme city The wonders that appeared were uncountable
Unequaled, impossible to describe, And they brought many millions of beings to buddha wisdom.
Those in Avṛha, Atapa, who had seen the truth, The devas of Sudṛśa and Sudarśana
And those in Akaniṣṭha, who are free of desire— They all came to see the Lord of humans.
Similarly, countless Parī­ttaśubha devas, Apramāṇaśubha devas, filled with joy
And countless millions of Śubhakṛtsna devas Came to see the Guide, the great Rishi.
Countless Apramāṇābha devas, And similarly the Parī­ttābha devas
And countless millions of Ābhāsvara devas Came to see the Lord of the World.
Many hundreds of thousands of Brahmā’s entourage, And similarly the faithful Brahmapurohita deva
And many hundreds of Brahmakāyika devas, All came so as to see the Guide.
Also the Para­nirmita­vaśa­vartin devas, And the pure beings who dwell in Nirmāṇaratin
And the joyful devas of Tuṣita and Yāma All came to pay homage to the Buddha.
Śakra, king of the devas, and the Trāyastriṃśa devas Came with hundreds of millions of apsarase
And they sent down a rain of flowers, Having come to see the Buddha, the Lord of sages.
Also the world guardians of the four directions Vaiśravaṇa, Dhṛtarāṣṭra the nāga king
Virūḍhaka, and Virūpākṣa, their minds filled with joy, All came in order to praise the Lord of men.
Ailavila, the powerful king of the yakṣas, With a delighted mind and encircled by a hundred yakṣas
Was in the middle of the sky and joyfully They sent down a rain of numerous various flowers.
Also the Sadāmatta and Mālādhāra devas, Holding various kinds of incense and flowers
With their retinues, all joyful, Made offerings there to the supreme individual.
Also numerous Karoṭapāṇi yakṣas And adorned yakṣa maiden
Made offerings to the Buddha With hundreds of compositions of The beautiful, melodious music of the yakṣas.
Druma, the king of the kiṃnaras, With thousands of kiṃnara maidens skille
In sweet and melodious songs and music, Arrived from Gandhamādana to make offerings to the supreme Jina.
Śambara, Bala, Vemacitra, and Rāhu, Together with an entourage of thousands of asura maidens
And together with crowds of other powerful asuras, Came and sent down a rain of jewels.
From countless trillions of rākṣasas A thousand million rākṣasas honored him
They respectfully scattered a multitude of various Flower petals upon the supreme individual.
The nāga king Girivalgu, With a great entourage came before the Tathāgata
Holding great numbers of perfect, precious flowers, And bowed down at the Sugata’s feet. {i
The nāga lords Padma and Mahāpadma, And also Vāsuki, Ananta, and Phanaka
Came before the great leader And respectfully bowed to the Sugata. {ii
The nāga king Maṇi, filled with joy, Came before the feet of the great leade
Holding fragrant, perfect nāga flowers And sat before the Sugata at no great distance. {iii
Also the nāga king Anavatapta, With perfectly trained nāga maiden
Playing a hundred thousand musical instruments and drums, Came and made offerings there to the Lord of the World.
The five hundred sons of Anavatapta
Encircled by their kindred and filled with joy, Seeking the highest, vast wisdom
Came to make offerings to the self-arisen one.
Similarly, the nāga king Apalāla, Palms together, bowed to the supreme individua
Holding beautiful, excellent nāga pearls. He remained in the sky, making offerings to the king of sages.
Similarly, the nāga king Mucilinda, With great happiness and filled with joy
Holding various jewels and pearls, Came and scattered them for the Guide.
Similarly, the nāga king Kālika Came before the Tathāgata
Joyful and holding perfect, beautiful strings of jewels, He made offerings to the supreme individual.
He felt great veneration as he thought Of the qualities of the Tathāgata
Encircled by his many nāga kindred, He recited many praises of the Guide.
Similarly, the nāga kings Nanda and Upananda— Similarly, also, Takṣaka and Kṛṣṇagautama
Came there gazing upon the Jina And bowed down to the Sugata’s feet.
The nāga king Elapatra Came weeping
encircled by a hundred nāgas
He remembered the supreme sage Jina Kāśyapa And saw what an unfavorable rebirth he himself had obtained.
“Alas! I had doubts in the past. In the past I cut down an elapatra bush
And therefore I obtained this unfavorable rebirth. It is not easy to know the Dharma of the Jina.
“I forsake this rebirth into a nāgī’s womb, And this birth in an extremely detestable body
I will realize the Dharma, the state of peace, That the best of men realized in the Bodhimaṇḍa.”
Sāgara, the nāga cakravartin king, Accompanied by an entourage of thirty million nāgas
And the majestic Varuṇa, holding necklaces of jewels, Came in order to make offerings to the Bhagavān.
The yakṣa of Rājagṛha who caught While he was in the sk
The rock thrown at the Buddha Was respectfully present before the Sugata.
The entire domain of the king of Alakavatī Became empty, with no yakṣa remaining there
They had all promised each other To come and see the Lord of the World.
In the same way, Kharakarṇa and Sūciromā, The terrifying yakṣas of the forests
And the yakṣa Gardabhaka, who lives in the snow mountains, Had come into the presence of the self-arisen Jina.
And a thousand other yakṣa lords Came holding censers of incense.
Indraketu, Vikaṭa, and Surūpa, Bakula, Pañcika, and Śākyavardhana
Many with ugly, misshapen bodies, Many kinds of bodies, destitute of adornment
In their hundreds of thousands Came into his presence, holding yakṣa flowers.
Gautama, Rishi Bṛhaspati, and Jahnu, Kauśika, Kāśyapa, and Markandeya
Viśvāmitra, Parāśara, and Gargā, They all came to pay homage to the Buddha. {i
And similarly, there were the joyous and enraptured Nārada, And the rishis Vyāsa, Kutsa, and Aṅgiras
And Manu, Bhṛgu, Vātsyāyana, and Vaśiṣṭha, Who came to pay homage to the Buddha. {ii
Jaimini, Vāmana, and Vaiśampāyana, Jamadagni and supreme rishi Vālmīki
Durvāsa, and also Cyavana Came to the supreme city to see the Guide. {iii
When they saw the Rishi, the rishis were overjoyed And they bowed down to the feet of the king of sages
They paid homage to the lamp of the world and praised him, Standing before the Hero with palms placed together. {iv
The entire multitude of rishis in the world Came in order to see the Lord of men
When they saw him they made vast offerings And stood before him with palms placed together. {v
The garūḍas that live at the ocean’s shore Came, having transformed into the appearance of brahmins
Holding various beautiful kinds of crowns And positioned in the sky, they paid homage to the Sugata.
All of the devas that dwell in Jambudvīpa, Whether in hundreds of towns or in its forests
And all the goddesses of the towns Came and made offerings to the Lord.
The countless devas of the forests And all the mountain devas came
And also the countless devas of rivers Arrived to make offerings to the Guide.
The hundreds of devas of desert wildernesses, All the devas of mountain peaks
The devas of lakes, springs, and ponds, And the devas of the ocean came into the Buddha’s presence.
Assemblies of devas, asuras, and nāgas, Yakṣas, kiṃnaras, mahoragas, and garūḍas
And similarly, a multitude of pretas and pūtanasShowed their respect to the supreme being.
They made offerings to the supreme Jina When the Guide entered the supreme city
The kings of the devas, asuras, nāgas, and yakṣas Could not get their fill of looking at him.
In previous existences the Lord of the World Had made perfect offerings to the jinas of the past
This was the ripened result of that merit. The beings could not stop looking at the Lord of humans.
When the Jina shone light through the buddha realm, Meru
and similarly Sumeru and Cakravāla The Himagiri and Gandhamādana Could not obscure the Jina’s light.
All of the oceans in this buddha realm At that time all became land
And the entirety of this buddha realm Became equally scattered with flowers.
Countless hundreds of thousands of light rays Came from the soles of the King of Dharma’s feet
All the beings in the hells were cooled And, freed from suffering, experienced happiness.
The one with the ten strengths taught the Dharma So that the sight of devas and humans was purified
Countless hundreds of thousands of beings All gained certainty in the Buddha’s wisdom.
The numerous miracles manifested by the Sugata Could not easily be described in ten million eons
When the Guide entered the supreme city All beings rejoiced at the Jina, the Sugata.
These qualities of the Sugata are immeasurable. They are the supreme human’s perfection of qualities
They have transcended all unique qualities. Bow your heads to the realm of the Buddha’s merit!
Conclusion of the tenth chapter, “The Entry into the City.
The Bhagavān came to the street on which was the home of the youth Candraprabha
and soon arrived at the home of the youth Candraprabha
Once he had arrived, he sat on the seat prepared for him
The saṅgha of bodhisattvas and the saṅgha of bhikṣus also sat on the appropriate seats that had been arranged for each of them
Then the youth Candraprabha, knowing that the Bhagavān, the saṅgha of bodhisattvas, and the saṅgha of bhikṣus were seated
himself presented and served a series of great offerings
numerous excellent foods, with hundreds of flavors to savor as they chewed, licked, sucked, and dran
When he saw that the Bhagavān had concluded his meal, which was signaled by his setting down his alms bowl
he offered for the Bhagavān’s body two lengths of cloth of the value of a trillion silver coins
and also to each of the bodhisattvas
he bowed toward the Bhagavān and praised him with these appropriate verses
“You are unborn and unceasing; Without a body, inconceivable
You have the perfect body and primary signs. I pay homage to you who are an ocean of qualities. {i
“You are a hero who has been born from wisdom. You possess the power of methods and strengths
You are a buddha who is the same as space. I pay homage to you who have perfected patience. {ii
“Your conduct is to remain in constant mindfulness. The Tathāgata’s bed is joy and happiness
Your drink is samādhi and your food is supreme dhyāna. I pay homage to you who reside in the solitude of emptiness. {iii
“Oh! Inconceivable Buddha, The Guide for the whole world! When the beings of this world make offerings to you They advance toward supreme nirvāṇa.” {iv
Through this may I also become a buddha like you, the god of gods!
“Unequaled Buddha, who has an inconceivable body, you have consumed the meal
Thus did he praise the one unequaled Lord, and then the youth said, with a joyous mind
and he offered three dharma robes to each one in the saṅgha of bhikṣus
Then the youth Candraprabha rose from his seat, removed his robe from one shoulder and, casting toward the Bhagavān a divine coral tree flower
he made offerings and uttered praises. Then, his palms placed together
“Whatever the wise bodhisattvas do, They always follow the nature of the Dharma
I pray to the Guide to teach what actions are performed When those with wisdom engage in actions.
“In what way, Guide, are past lives remembered? In what way is rebirth in a womb avoided
In what way does the community not become divided? In what way does one gain endless eloquence?
“You know the activities of all beings. You have the knowledge of all phenomena
You are the invincible, supreme human. I have asked my questions; give me your elucidation.
“You know that nonexistence is the nature of phenomena; You put into words that which cannot be described
Just as a lion overpowers all jackals, That is how the Buddha overpowers the tīrthikas.
“You know the conduct of all beings. You have the wisdom of all phenomena
You have wisdom without attachment, and activity that is pure. Lord of the Dharma, elucidate those for me.
“You know the past and also the future. You also know what is happening in the present
You have unimpeded knowledge of the three times. Therefore I have asked you my questions, lion of the Śākyas.
“You, Dharma king, know the true nature That is the nature of the jinas of the three times
You are skilled in the nature of phenomena, self-arisen one. Therefore, ocean of wisdom, I have asked you my questions.
“You do not have any quality of error. Therefore you have a mind of complete elimination
You have eliminated the fetters and the rigidity of ignorance. Lord of humans, teach me the conduct of a bodhisattva.
“You, Jina, know the characteristics of phenomena. Teach me the characteristics of phenomena
Now, placing his palms together in homage toward the Bhagavān, in his mind he addressed him with these verses
He offered divine coral tree flowers to the Bhagavān, and praised him with appropriate verses
In that way, therefore, the youth Candraprabha provided divine food with a hundred flavors to the Bhagavān
When I have understood those characteristics of phenomena I shall practice the conduct of enlightenment that has those characteristics.
“The conduct of beings is infinitely different. How do they engage in practicing their conduct
Teach to me how conduct is engaged in So that from your words, I may know the conduct of beings.
“Different characteristics are characteristic of the nature of phenomena. Their essence is empty and their nature is pure
I pray that you teach me the way of phenomena That a bodhisattva directly perceives.
“In this there is the perfect knowledge of all phenomena. There is skill in all the words of the teaching
There is no doubt; all doubt and uncertainty have been cut through. Teach me the enlightenment of buddhahood.”
That is the teaching of supreme wisdom From having true, correct knowledge.
“The single teaching on phenomena Is that phenomena have no characteristics
Then the Bhagavān taught this in the following verses
they cannot be conceived of, they have no thought, and they have no mentality.
they have the one characteristic of having no characteristics, they are devoid of attributes
they have no characteristics of conditions, they are devoid of characteristics
they have no cessation, they have no characteristics of caus
they have no letters, they have no birth
They know that all phenomena have no vocalization, they have no expression in speech
Young man, bodhisattva mahāsattvas know that all phenomena are nameless; they have no names
“Young man, how do bodhisattva mahāsattvas know the nature of all phenomena
Young man, it is when the bodhisattva mahāsattvas know the nature of all phenomena
What is that one quality
“Young man, bodhisattva mahāsattvas will attain all these qualities
The Bhagavān, knowing the thoughts that were in the mind of the youth Candraprabha, said to him
and they will quickly attain the highest, complete enlightenment of perfect buddhahood, if they possess just one quality
“The bodhisattvas who know That teaching on phenomen
Will not cease from elucidation Even though they teach ten million sūtras.
“Through the blessing of the Guide The ultimate truth is known
When the ultimate is known There is nothing to be taught.
“Through one thing, everything is known. Through one thing, everything is seen
However much they teach They will not become proud.
“With their minds they have ascertained The selflessness of all phenomena
And as they are trained in teaching using terms, They speak with words that are correct.
“Whatever sound they hear, They know its past
Knowing the past of that sound They are not captivated by that sound.
“Just like the past of a sound, So are the characteristics of phenomena
Knowing phenomena to be like that They will not be reborn in a womb.
“They know that all phenomena are unborn And that they have no origin
Knowing this teaching on birth They always remember their previous lives.
“When they remember those lives They perform their actions
For those who perform those actions Their community of followers remains united.
“The bodhisattvas who know The emptiness of phenomen
Will never be without that knowledge. It is the summit of nothingness.
“When the foolish think about The summit of nothingnes
They continue in saṃsāra For millions of eons.
“If they are able to understand it Just as the Guide knows it
Then they will have no suffering And they will not go to the lower realms.
“All ordinary individuals Are ignorant of this nature
They reject this kind of Dharma That brings the cessation of suffering.
“Phenomena are perceived when No phenomena can be found
Recognize that perception When that perception occurs.
“The foolish conceptualize Through consciousness and perception
The wise do not become ignorant In conceiving of phenomena.
“The unpolluted phenomena of emptiness Are within the field of experience of the bodhisattvas
“This level of the bodhisattva
It is the peace and emptiness that has been taught.
Is that of bodhisattva practice. It is the adornment of the Buddha’s Dharma
This level of those who are wise Is not within the field of experience of the foolish.
“When the bodhisattvas Eliminate their propensitie
They remain in the family of the buddhas And are not captured by form.
“All phenomena are without location; They have no location that can be known
For the one who knows this about their location, Enlightenment is not difficult to attain.
“Generosity, conduct, learning, and patience, And relying upon a good friend
Those who know these activities Will quickly attain enlightenment.
“Devas, nāgas, yakṣas, and asuras, Mahoragas and gandharvas, will always honor them
“The bodhisattvas who know emptines
Benefit many millions of beings. They kindly teach the Dharma to assemblie
And those who hear it are delighted and respectful
“They gain vast knowledge So that they see the supreme humans
They see the beautiful display of their realms And the lords of the worlds teach them the Dharma.
“Know that all phenomena are like illusions; Know that just as space is naturally empty
Phenomena are also naturally like that. In that way there will be no attachment in any kind of activity.
“With unimpeded wisdom, benefiting others, Performing supreme bodhisattva conduct in the world
With wisdom examining all phenomena, They send emanations to other realms.
“Those emanations accomplish buddha activities. They go naturally, just as is their nature
The beings who remain in the aspiration to enlightenment Will attain whatever goals they wish for.
All the kings of the garūḍas, kiṃnaras, And rākṣasas will make offerings to them.
“Millions of buddhas will recite their praises Continuously for many millions of eons
It is not possible to reach the end Of such praise for one who teaches this Dharma.
“Those who are steadfastly within the buddha family Will always honor the buddhas
Their bodies will shine brightly, Adorned by the thirty-two excellent signs.
“They will attain the conduct that is within the supreme samādhi And an endless multitude of other benefits
They will always have great, unshakable strength And a majesty that outshines that of kings.
“The wise who practice the Buddha’s Dharma Will have an excellent appearance and great beauty
Their merit and majesty and splendor will increase. Their majesty will outshine even that of the devas.
“Those who steadfastly remain in the aspiration to enlightenment Will always be friends to all beings
There will never be any darkness In their teaching of the enlightenment of buddhahood.
“The nature of phenomena is like that of space, Inexpressible, beyond speech and words
Those who know that supreme nature Will have an unceasing confidence in teaching.
“Even though they teach a hundred thousand sūtras, They know the finest details of the past
The wise will always have unimpeded speech, Knowing the subtlety of the nature of phenomena.
“They will be skilled in hundreds of ways. They will have mastered the many kinds of words and definitions
They have certainty in the ripening of actions and results. They become distinctively preeminent in that way.
“They will possess unimpaired power. They are great wise ones, the heirs of those with the ten strengths
Knowing the subtle nature of phenomena, They will always have a completely pure memory.
“Because they know the subtle nature of phenomena, They will never hear an unpleasant sound
They always hear pleasant and melodious sounds And their words are always pleasant.
“Because they know the very subtle nature of phenomena, They have memory, understanding, wisdom, and realization
Similarly, their minds are clear and unpolluted And they teach many hundreds of sūtras.
They have these qualities through knowing the nature of phenomena.
“They are learned in the categories of letters and words. They know many different kinds of sounds, And they are skilled in meanings and letters
They have these qualities through knowing the nature of phenomena.
“Because they know the subtle nature of phenomena They are always attractive and charmin
“Because they know the subtle nature of phenomen
They never perceive as frightenin
The extremely terrible and flesh-devouring Crowds of spirits, pretas, and rākṣasas.
“Those who hear the vast teaching of the wise Experience vast joy and their hairs stand on end
They develop a vast attraction to the buddhas, And gain a vast, inconceivable benefit.
“Even by speaking for many thousands of eons It is not possible to describe the power of the merit That comes from memorizing this Dharma treasure of the sugatas. It is immeasurable, infinite, and unquantifiable.
Are so by having memorized this supreme samādhi of peace.
“The jinas to whom offerings have been made in the past
The countless buddhas of the future, And the buddhas who are present in the ten directions
Serves compassionate ones with the ten strength
“If a person who wishes for merit
With immeasurable affection for the
For countless endless millions of eons,
“And if a second person who wishes for meri
Memorizes, during future times, One verse from this way of the ultimate truth
Then the previous person’s merit will not even be a fraction of that.
“This will be the supreme offering to the buddhas. During the future dreadful time
Hearing one of these four-line verses And memorizing it will be an offering to all the buddhas.
As the best senior heirs of the one with ten strengths, They will for a long time make offerings to many jinas.
“They will always obtain the best provisions. They will always eat the best alms of the land
“They will also see myself here on Vulture Peak Mountain. And I, in buddha wisdom, will thus prophesy to them
Also, after my passing away, there will be Maitreya, Who at that time will also prophesy to them.
“Similarly, Buddha Amitāyus als
Has taught many other kinds of benefits: ‘All will enter my Sukhāvatī
And go to Abhirati and see Buddha Akṣobhya.’
“For countless hundreds of thousands of eons They will never have the fear of downfalls
In this supreme practice of bodhisattva conduct They will always experience happiness.
“In that way it has been taught that this, Which is preeminent, has the most excellent merit
May I learn every single word, And in future times be a keeper of this sūtra.”
Conclusion of the eleventh chapter, “Becoming a Keeper of the Sūtra.
“Young man, those are the qualities and benefits that bodhisattvas who know the nature of all phenomena will have
They will describe the true, excellent qualities of the tathāgatas
They will not falsely say that which is untrue about the tathāgatas
Why is that
It is because they know perfectly that nature, which is the nature through which a tathāgata comes to be
They know the infinite qualities of a buddha
Young man, the qualities of a buddha are infinite, inconceivable, beyond thought
They cannot be conceived or measured
The mind, young man, is taught to be without a nature of its own, to be without form
Young man, that nature of the mind is also the nature of the qualities of a buddha
That nature of the qualities of a buddha is also the nature of the tathāgatas
and that is the nature of all phenomena
“Young man, the bodhisattva mahāsattvas who know correctly that teaching on the nature of all the qualities are
They have perfect knowledge, do not teach that which is erroneou
and do not say that which is anything other than true
young man, called bodhisattva mahāsattvas with profound comprehension
They know perfectly emancipation from the three realms
They are skilled in emancipation
Their conduct is in line with what they teach
They have no attachment to the three realms. They have transcended the three realms
They have transcended the level of desire, the level of form, the level of formlessness
the level of the kleśas, the level of names, and the level of language
They are skilled in the way of letters and words
They know letters. They are skilled in letter
They know freedom from letters. They have mastered the inexpressible Dharma
They are skilled in the knowledge of the categories of letters and words
They are skilled in the knowledge of the detailed categories of letters and words
They are skilled in the knowledge of the categories of all the words of the Dharma
They are skilled in the knowledge of the detailed categories of all the words of the Dharma
They are skilled in the knowledge of the presentation of all the Dharma
They are endowed with the certainty of understanding
so that all the evil māras and all the devas in their entourages cannot overcome them.
At that time, when this Dharma teaching was given
ninety-eight times a hundred thousand million devas and human beings who had created the karma in previous lifetimes
had accumulated a trillion retentions, were unobscured, and had insight into the Dharma, all attained patience
The Bhagavān prophesied to them all that after four million, eight hundred thousand countless eon
they would attain the highest, complete enlightenment of perfect buddhahood
It was said
“The wise bodhisattvas who seek to attain The highest, supreme enlightenment
Who are skilled in meaning and the Dharma, Practice the nature of phenomena.
“They say nothing that is untrue About the unique qualities of the buddhas
The heroes, free of all doubt, Know the nature of the jinas.
“They know that all phenomena have but a single meaning, And that is solely emptiness
They do not have different meanings. They become adept in that single meaning.
“The wise know that they are without thought, Are devoid of thought, and that there is no object
He prophesied to each of them their separate names, their identical lifespans, and the individual buddha realms wher
They have eliminated without remainder Every conception of cessation and noncessation.
“They do not see the one with ten strengths as form, But see the lion of men as the dharmakāya
Neither do they conceive of attributes Because they have eliminated all error.
“The qualities are inconceivable, beyond thought. They have the nature of complete peace
With this knowledge they thus see The buddhas as the supreme among humans.
All phenomena have that nature, Which is as completely pure as space.
“Just as they know their own conceptions to be, Thus they direct their understanding of everything
“Nothing arises to their conceptual mind. They know emancipation from all phenomena
They are liberated from the three realms And they have no aspiration for them.
“They are those who see correctly and do not say Anything to the contrary or any untrue words
All the words that they speak Come forth through the power of the jinas.
“They transcend the level of desire, And the levels of kleśas, form, and formlessness
Their minds have no attachment to phenomena. They practice with joy, benefiting beings.
“They have transcended the level of words; Their knowledge of language is obtained from its nature
For however long they speak They know those words have no basis.
“There is no activity of conceptualization; Incorrect views have completely ceased
Their understanding is completely assured. It has a stability like that of space.
“Even though quintillions of māras Come to disturb their mind
They overcome all the māras And do not fall under their power.
“They have rejected the net of the māras. They have pure, untroubled conduct
They aspire to the bliss of dhyāna And know the world to be empty.
“Even though it is said the world is an aggregate, They know it to be empty
And that all phenomena are like space, Without birth and without cessation.
“They have forsaken the self, but not the conduct Or listening to the teaching of the one with ten strengths
They have attained perfect conductAnd will be reborn wherever they pray to be.
“They go to the buddha realms. They see many millions of buddhas
They have no desire for the deva realms And they do not pray to be there.
“While they are practicing the Dharma, Their diligence does not waver for an instant
They are highly praised by The buddhas in the ten directions.
“Therefore, young man, when you have received This Dharma teaching of the samādhi
Rejecting the profits of the intellect, Teach this Dharma to the people.
“One who wishes for the numerous qualities Possessed by the self-arisen buddh
Should train in this goodness And become a buddha with the ten strengths.”
Conclusion of the twelfth chapter, “The Training According to the Samādhi.
Then the Bhagavān said to the youth Candraprabha
“Therefore, young man, bodhisattva mahāsattvas who wish for this samādhi, and wish to attain quickly the highest, complete enlightenment of perfect buddhahood
should be skilled in teaching this samādhi
“Young man, what is the teaching of this samādhi
It is the true nature of all phenomena; it is equality; it is the absence of inequality; it is devoid of notions
it is devoid of concepts; it is devoid of creation
it is devoid of arising; it is devoid of production; it is devoid of cessation
it is the termination of notions, concepts, and assumptions; it is devoid of an object for the mind
it is devoid of a focus of the mind; it is the termination of designations
it is the termination of concepts from analysis
it is the termination of desire, anger, and ignorance
it is without a limited or limitless focus of the mind
it is the termination of any focus of the mind
it is the knowledge of the nature of the skandhas, dhātus, and āyatanas
it is the state of accomplishing the field of activity that is the performance of the conduct of mindfulness, understanding, comprehension, conscience, and stability
it is the level of freedom from corruptions; it is the level of peace
it is the termination of all conceptual elaboration
it is the training of all bodhisattvas
it is the field of activity of all tathāgatas
and it is the perfection of all good qualities
“Young man, that is what the teaching of samādhi is said to be
Bodhisattva mahāsattvas who are established in this teaching of samādhi become inseparable from samādhi
their minds become free of delusion
they become endowed with great compassion, and they accomplish the benefit of countless beings.
Thereupon the Bhagavān spoke these verses
“The level of unequaled samādhi Is peaceful, subtle, and difficult to see
All conceptions have been eliminated. Therefore it is called ‘samādhi.’
“There are no notions, there are no concepts, There is nothing to be grasped
there is nothing to be shown, And there is no object for the mind. Therefore it is called ‘samādhi.’
“When in a state of meditation There is no pride concerning any phenomenon
That very absence of pride— That is what is called ‘samādhi.’
“There does not exist even an atom of phenomena. That which is called ‘an atom’ does not exist
There are no phenomena as objects for the mind. Therefore it is called ‘samādhi.’
“ ‘The mind has no object’ Is also itself a concept
When there are no concepts of phenomena, Then that is known as ‘samādhi.’
“A word indicates a meaning. That word is not a thing
A word is like an echo, Like the space of the sky.
“These phenomena are not present; There is no presence to be perceived
The nonpresence is through the word ‘presence.’ Its nature is that there is nothing to be found.
“One says ‘going’ and ‘passing away,’ But that ‘going’ does not exist
Through the word ‘going’ there is the absence of going. That is given the name samādhi.
“Saying ‘I am not meditating’ is called pride. ‘I am meditating’ is a second kind of pride
Practicing for enlightenment without pride, And attaining the absence of pride is the highest enlightenment.
“This unequaled equality is the level of peace; It is śamatha and vipaśyanā, devoid of attributes
Relying upon this peace, the level of buddhahood, Is engaging in the meditation of samādhi.
“It is not possible through words to enter Into the understanding of the meaning
When all sounds and words are abandonedThere will be meditation without pride.
“The bodhisattvas who remain engaged In this samādhi as it has been taught
And know that phenomena are the same as space, Will also not be burned by fire.
For the one who understands that This samādhi will not be difficult to attain.
“Though one is born and though one dies, There is no birth and there is no deat
The bodhisattvas will have these qualities By remaining in samādhi just as they have been taught.
“They will have infinite miraculous powers. They will travel through the air unimpeded
“The Lord of the World has taught That there is no death and there is no birth
Just as the Lord of the World knew that, You should also know it through this samādhi.
“Unstained by the world, They have no attachment to worldly phenomena
With a body free of impediment They go to the buddha realms.
“They constantly see in those realms The perfect buddhas, the guides of the world
They listen there to the Dharma That is taught in the realms of the buddhas.
“They will never be in ignorance. They will teach the essence of phenomena
They always knows the way of phenomena, Which is comprised of the essence of phenomena.
“Even though they teach for ten million eons, Their confidence in speech will not decline
They emanate many other bodhisattvas Who have wisdom.
“The emanated bodhisattva
They are seated, cross-legged, Upon lotuses that have a thousand petals.
Travel from realm to realm
While meditating peacefully in samādhi.
Wonderful dhāraṇīs and sūtras, And ten million other sūtras
“They teach the enlightenment of buddhahood
Just like space that has never been burned in the past, Even though the fire burns for many hundreds of eons.
Though the earth was destroyed it would be unchanged.
“If the buddha realm were burning And in this samādhi they prayed For the burning to completely ceas
“They establish in irreversibility Countless multitudes of beings
And teach the enlightenment of buddhahood Without their confidence in speech ever declining.
“They go to a pinnacled hall That is adorned with jewel
And scatter aromatic Flowers upon the guides.
“They also sprinkle scented Powders upon the guides
They all make vast offerings In order to attain enlightenment.
“Those countless qualities Are the refuge of the bodhisattvas
When they are free of kleśas They attain those miraculous powers.
“Because the kleśas are not created They are clear, pure, and bright
The field of activity of the bodhisattvas Is noncomposite and inviolate.
“They have perfect peace, complete peace; They have no kleśas, and they have no misery
They have no conceptualization, are free of conceptualization, And have transcended conceptualization.
“This characteristic of phenomena Is beyond the scope of words
It is difficult to know through language And therefore it is called samādhi.
“It is unending; it is complete peace; It is effortless, and it cannot be shown
The field of activity of all the buddhas Is the completely pure summit of the truth.
Conclusion of the thirteenth chapter, “The Teaching of the Samādhi.
Then the youth Candraprabha rose from his seat
removed his robe from one shoulder, and, kneeling on his right knee
“Knowing the nature of phenomen
They have reached the perfectio
That is nonconceptual and effortless.”
In that way all those buddhas Have reached the perfection of qualities.
“Without any concepts of the past, Of this side and the further side
having trained in it, Have reached the perfection of qualities. 
“The training of all the buddhas Is in the nature of all phenomena. The perfect buddhas
As having no coming or going
with palms placed together he bowed toward the Bhagavān and said to him
“Bhagavān, it is marvelous that the the Bhagavān, the tathāgata, the arhat, the perfectly enlightened Buddha has taught the equality that is the nature of all phenomena, which is the samādhi that all bodhisattvas train in
The Bhagavān said, “Young man, if you think the time has come, be confident to speak.
“Bhagavān, it was thus, in this training, that the Bhagavān trained for a long time
and accomplished the highest, complete enlightenment of perfect buddhahood
Bhagavān, that gives me confidence to speak. Sugata, it gives me confidence to speak.
Since the Bhagavān had granted the youth Candraprabha this opportunity
Candraprabha spoke the following verses of praise directly to the Bhagavān
“You saw beings tormented by suffering, Constantly overpowered by desire and anger
And developed the aspiration to attain enlightenment: ‘May I become a buddha who liberates beings!
 “Hero, for many millions of eons, constantly, You practiced generosity, self-restraint and self-control
Patience, correct conduct, and similarly diligence, And your acts of generosity were vast and infinite.
“Without ever any sadness in your mind You gave away your legs, arms, and even your life
And similarly, without attachment you gave away Gold, silver, sons, wives, and your kingdom.
“Your conduct was stainless and pure. You made a gift of yourself without ruining your conduct
You controlled well your body, speech, and mind. Sugata who has a self-restrained mind, I pay homage to you.
“Delighting in patience, residing on the path of patience, Even though your body was cut into pieces you were not angered
Through your meditation on love, milk flowed from you. Marvelous Sugata, I pay homage to you.
“You possess the strength of the ten strengths. With wisdom free of attachment you know all phenomena
With compassion, Lord of Dharma, you benefit the world. Through your kindness you wish to benefit beings.
“You know emptiness and that there are no such beings, And likewise you see that the world’s beings have lost that path
You have realized that the nature of phenomena is selfless And that though you bring beings to liberation, there is no such liberation.
Enlightened at buddhahood, you have vast, infinite wisdom. You teach the supreme Dharma of completely pure peace.
“With discrimination you reject all carelessness. You have conquered the infinite, powerful māras
“The sky with its moon and the stars may fall, The earth with its mountains and towns may be destroyed
The element of space may change into something else, But you will never speak an untrue word.
“You have seen the suffering of beings Who take joy in the perception of objects
You teach the profound peace, emptiness, In which there is no perception of objects.
Yours is not the level of foolish beings, And neither is it the level of all the tīrthikas.
“Just as you have trained in the Dharma, In that way you teach the Dharma
“Great hero, you traine
For countless millions of eons In the training of nonperception
And so you are free of error.
“Those who have the conception of a self, They are unwise beings who are in error
You know that phenomena have no self
“You speak the truth, great hero; You are established in the true Dharma
Lord, you remain within truth, within veracity, And you speak words that are true.
“Your conduct has been true, Just as you have prayed for
You have the consequence of that true conduct And you speak words that are true.
“You have perfected true conduct. You have trained in the summit of truth
You have truly practiced with a true motivation. I pay homage to you who has true wisdom.
“There is no equal to your wisdom. Your words of wisdom illuminate
You have attained unique wisdom. I pay homage to you who speaks words of wisdom.
“You have meditated on kindness And become a friend to all beings
You are as unshakable as Sumeru. You are completely stable and unwavering.
“Teacher, your following is vast. You have attracted these followers
Sugata who has profound wisdom, Make your voice resound within this assembly.
“The voice of the Buddha is a lion’s roar. You walk with the gait of a lio
You defeat all the tīrthikas Like a lion defeats jackals.
“Hero who subdues the unsubdued, The unsubdued are subdued by you
They become friends who are reliable, Inseparable, and pleasant to be with.
“You see the beings who are suffering Because they maintain the view of a self
You teach the Dharma of no-self In which there is neither like nor dislike.
“The foolish who are untrained Take up the wrong paths
You show them the path That the guides have followed.
“Whoever holds to the concept of a self, They will remain in suffering
They do not know selflessness, Within which there is no suffering.
“You teach the Dharma with words that are without error
Lord of the World, you make no error
You are one who speaks words that are never incorrect. I pay homage to you, who bring freedom from suffering.
“In the sky there are many quintillions Of devas, nāgas, and yakṣas
They all feel joy in the Guide When they hear the meaningful words of the Bhagavān.
“Your words are mild, gentle, and pleasing, Timely, melodious, appropriate, and beloved
You have the countless qualities of speech That benefit and bring liberation to many beings.
“Countless hundreds of thousands of musical instrument
Are all played melodiously and simultaneously, But the Sugata with one word eclipses them al
With his unique, divine, beloved voice.
“Avadavats and flocks of birds with beautiful songs, With their beautiful songs that are pleasing to everyone
All of the songs of these many flocks of birds Cannot equal a fraction of the Buddha’s speech.
“Deva maidens with beautiful voices And with melodious music and songs
And the sound of lutes, paṭaha drums, bherī drums, and conches, Cannot equal a fraction of the Buddha’s speech. {i
“The songs of cuckoos, parrots, and mynas, Of cranes, peacocks, and kiṃnaras
All these beautiful, melodious sounds Cannot equal a fraction of the Buddha’s speech.
“Delightful, melodious, beautiful, enjoyable, Exquisite, peaceful voices singing praises
All such voices singing simultaneously Are not as delightful as the Tathāgata’s perfect speech.
“The light from all luminous beings, From devas, humans, kings, and asuras
And from all beings in the three existences, Are eclipsed by one light ray from the Sugata.
“The Sugata’s body is like a blossomed flower With the various adornments of all the special signs
A pure and clear accomplishment of hundreds of merits, The body of the Jina shines on the entire world.
“The sound of conches and of paṇavas, And the sound of bherī drums and kimpalas
All those beautiful and delightful sounds Cannot equal a hundredth of the Buddha’s voice.
“The sounds of quintillions of musical instruments, Clear and beautiful voices like those of the devas
And the delightful voices of male and female devas Cannot equal a hundredth of the Buddha’s voice.
“Flocks of a multitude of birds—cranes, peacocks, Shelducks, cuckoos, geese, and snipe
May simultaneously sing their songs, but they Cannot equal a hundredth of the Buddha’s voice.
“The voices of nāgas, yakṣas, asuras, mahoragas, Devendra, Brahmā, and the lords of the devas
All the lovely and beautiful voices in the three existences Cannot equal a hundredth of the Buddha’s voice.
“The light of Brahmā and lords of the devas, The light of the sun and precious jewels
The many different kinds of light— All those lights are eclipsed by the brilliance of the Jina’s light.
The purity of your wisdom is unstained by the three existences. Lord of men, you have the wealth of qualities, precious qualities
Self-arisen one, through all your qualities, you are without equal.”
In that way the youth spoke those words with great joy, Praising the one with ten strengths, the speaker of truth
He said, “By offering to the measureless, unquantifiable Buddha May I also become a buddha like Śākyamuni!”
Knowing his perfect conduct, the Sugata, The Lord of humans, the one with wisdom free of attachment, smiled
Maitreya, the senior son of the one with ten strengths, asked him, “For what reason did the Guide smile?
“The earth has shaken in six ways. The devas and nāgas in the sky are filled with joy
They are gazing at the Buddha with great delight and happiness. I pray to the unconquerable Sugata that you elucidate this to them.
“You have a supreme being’s wisdom, Which is not the level of the Bhagavān’s śrāvakas
You who has pure wisdom beyond examples, wise one, Tell us the entire reason, Jina, why you smiled.
“You are the Śākya lion, possessor of the ten strengths, the Guide, The chief of humans, the one who has reached the perfection of wisdom
You have eliminated intractable desire, anger, and ignorance. To you who shine with intense light, I ask this question:
“You have the supreme wisdom in the three existences. You know the conduct of all beings
“You gave away horses, elephants, and chariots, Slaves, jewels, silver, and pearls
When you practiced the sublime conduct There were no jewels or wealth that you did not give away.
You gave away sons, wives, companions, and relations. Sage, for what reason did you show a smile?
For what reason did you show a smile?
“Seeking the supreme, highest enlightenment, You, the Teacher, gave away your arms and legs
You are skilled in knowing their natures, minds, and aspirations. For what reason did you smile?
“Who made the offering to you, best of men? For whom has vast merit been created
Who has gained that excellent conduct? Sage, for what reason did you smile?
“The earth has shaken in six ways. Millions of lotuses have appeared on the ground
They shine and have millions of excellent petals. They are the color of gold, beautiful and delightful.
“Present here are the heart sons of the Jina Who show the greatest bodhisattva miracles
Many dharmabhāṇakas have gathered here. Guide, I ask my question for their sake.
“The sound of bherī drums, conches, and gongs, Of quintillions of instruments has resounded
That music was heard coming from the sky, But compared to that the Sugata’s speech is inconceivable.
They have sung their perfect, beautiful songs, But they do not equal a fraction of the Buddha’s speech.
“Many flocks of birds have gathered, Cranes, geese, avadavats, and cuckoos
“Who in the past with generosity, self-restraint, and self-control Has served well for many millions of eons
Who has made offerings to you, supreme among men? For what reason did you smile?
Asked you, supreme among men, the question
For what reason did you smile?
“Who in the past, having shown you the greatest veneration
‘How can I attain the enlightenment of buddhahood
“Those with the ten strengths in the past, The sugatas of the present and the future
And you, supreme among men, know all. Therefore for the benefit of beings I ask this question.
“You know the thoughts in the minds of beings And all beings’ infinite ways of conduct
You know the aspirations that humans have. Therefore I ask this question to you, supreme among men.
“Those who are practicing the supreme conduct, Who are adept in causes, reasons, and discipline
They ask, ‘How does one attain the Buddha’s wisdom?’ Therefore, supreme human, I ask this question.
The subtle Dharma that is difficult to perceive, And emptiness and peace that is unequaled and inconceivable
“There are those who meditate on the field of experience of those with the ten strengths
For their sake, Guide, I ask you this question.
“Those who meditate on love and compassion For all the countless beings in the world
Without their having the concept of beings— Supreme human, for their sake I ask this question.
“Those who have inconceivable, unequaled wisdom, They are never known to have any grasping
They have reached the perfection of the mind’s field of activity. Lord, it is for their sake that I ask this question.
“You have reached the perfection of conduct and wisdom’s qualities. You have unequaled knowledge of the three times
You will never make an error. For what reason did you smile?
“Śāriputra, Aniruddha, and Kolita, And the other śrāvakas of the Sugata
Do not have that wisdom. It is the unsurpassable field of activity of the buddhas.
“You have reached the perfection of power over all phenomena. You have ascended through the practice of the training
Guide, you have developed compassion. You who know the ultimate truth, release your voice!
“You have had, in the past for many millions of eons, The goal of being the ultimate refuge and protector
And have inquired, supreme human, with just that intention; Guide, tell us the result of that today.
“Yakṣas, rākṣasas, kumbhāṇḍas, and guhyakas Are gazing upon the supreme among humans
They are all respectful, their palms together in homage
In order to listen to the elucidation from the great being.
“Many bodhisattvas with miraculous powers Have come from millions of buddha realms
These senior sons, born form the minds of the sugatas, Are all respectfully present, their palms together in homage.
For this question, Lion of the Śākyas, supreme human.
Has come into your presence from the east, From the famous world of Akṣobhya’s real
“Gandhahasti with millions of bodhisattva
From the supreme realm of Sukhāvatī For this question
“Avalokiteśvara and Mahā­sthāma­prāpta Have come before you with millions of bodhisattva
For this question, Lion of the Śākyas, supreme human.
As numerous as the sand grains in all the oceans, Seeking this supreme sublime wisdom.
“In the past for many millions of eon
They have served countless sugata
“Mañjughoṣa is present, his palms together in homage. He has been praised and extolled by all the buddhas
He has reached the perfection of all good qualities And is renowned throughout the worlds in all directions.
“They have practiced in millions of buddha realms. It is very rare to see such beings
They have the qualities of sons of the buddhas and excellent training, And are all present, with their palms together respectfully in homage.
The holders of the Dharma treasures of all teachers
Guide, release your gentle speech.
“There is no one here other than worthy recipients. That is what these wise ones are like
“The jinas, the guides, the supreme humans Have never been seen to smile without a reason
Grant us your supreme speech, which is like the beat of a drum. What is the reason that we saw you smile?
“The supreme beings resound like thunder, Geese, cuckoos, peacocks, and swans
And they emit the melodious music of the devas. Liberator of beings, elucidate with your words.
“You develop kindness, you increase joy, You teach wisdom, you eliminate ignorance
You realize the meaning, you expand wisdom, And you have purified for quintillions of eons.
“You have realized the nature of things with certainty, You have taught the meaning in words that end suffering
You have routed the teachings of all tīrthikas. You meditate on emptiness, the absence of being, and the absence of a soul.
“You are adorned by thousands of merits. You have practiced with hundreds of thousands of buddhas
Are praised by hundreds of thousands of devas, And hundreds of thousands of Brahmās pay homage to you.
“Yakṣas, rākṣasas, and kumbhāṇḍas have faith in you. You have liberated nāgas, mahoragas, and garūḍas
You are constantly without any attachment. Speak the words that are the result of good actions.
“All the jinas that have passed into nirvāṇa, Those who will live in the future, and those now present
You know them all without impediment. Guide, you are sublime because of all your qualities.
“This earth that supports beings, with its mountains And oceans, has been shaken in six ways
The devas have thrown down flowers from the sky. There has arisen the beautiful aroma of the incense of the devas.
“Desire, anger, and darkness of the mind have been completely eliminated. Conduct has become completely pure and the mind has become completely pure
There is delight in complete peace, emptiness, and the absence of attributes. There is the sound of the lion’s roar, the sound of the compassionate ones.
“You have the confidence of speech, and great renown. You have perfected wisdom, the wisdom of the jinas
Compassionate one, there is no one like you in this world. Tell us, for what reason did you smile?
“The songs of peacocks, cuckoos, and avadavats, And likewise the beautiful song of the partridge
All those pleasant sounds simultaneously Do not equal a fraction of the Sugata’s speech.
“Bherī drums, mṛdaṅgas, and similarly paṇavas; Conches, flutes, and similarly lutes
The simultaneous sound of a thousand instruments Does not equal a fraction of the Sugata’s speech.
“The divine, sublime sound of thousands of instruments And the beautiful songs of deva maidens
The excellent songs that bring delightful sounds to the mind, Do not equal a fraction of the Sugata’s speech.
“With one sound you benefit the world As it resounds to those with different aspirations
Each person thinking, ‘The Jina is speaking to me.’ For what reason did you smile?
“The music of the devas and the music of the nāgas, And also the melodious music of the kiṃnaras
Are never able to pacify the kleśas. The Buddha’s speech always dispels the kleśas.
“You create joy but not joy in desire. You create love and not a mind of anger
You create wisdom and not a mind of stupidity. The Buddha’s speech eliminates all stains.
“The sound of your voice does not go beyond your followers. It cuts through everyone’s hundreds of doubts
It is never too quiet nor too loud. The Sage’s voice teaches everyone equally and easily.
“This earth with its mountains and forests may perish, And so may the waters of the ocean
The moon and the sun may fall to the earth, But the Jina’s speech will never change.
“Your voice has all the qualities of pure speech. Your beautiful voice is a gentle lion’s roar
Compassionate one, you have the voice of Brahmā. For what reason did you smile?
Of all the beings in the world, Those in the past, the future, and the present
“You know the minds and conduc
Tell us the reason why you smiled.
“All of the jinas, the compassionate ones, They who have reached the perfection of power and wisdom
The jinas whose faces are like stainless moons, Have never smiled without a reason.
“If for millions of eons one were to describe your unequaled qualities, Which are as numerous as the sands of the Ganges
One would not be able to describe them fully
Conclusion of the fourteenth chapter, “The Buddha’s Smile.
At that time the Bhagavān spoke these appropriate verses to Bodhisattva Maitreya
“This youth, Candraprabha, Has praised the Buddha with unequaled joy
He described the unique superior qualities of the buddha
All the time he is reciting their praises
 “In this very city of Rājagṛha in the past He has seen ten thousand million buddhas
In the presence of all those jinas He asked about this supreme samādhi of peace.
“He has always been my son, Practicing this supreme bodhisattva conduct
He has always had the confidence of speech, And always he has been practicing celibacy.
“In the very fearful future times You, Ajita, will be my witness
You have cut through the bondage of the creepers of craving. You are free of existence and are devoid of existence.
“You know the nonexistence that is the nature of phenomena. You make understood in words that which cannot be described
Just as the lion destroys the jackal, You defeat the unwise tīrthikas.
“I have obtained today the highest treasure, The treasure of the Dharma taught by the Sugata
I am freed from falling into any of the lower existences. I will never have doubts that you are my guide.
“He placed upon my head his hand, Which was shining, beautiful, the color of gold
He gave me the consecration to be a supreme leader of humans, With the world and its devas as witnesses.”
Conclusion of the fifteenth chapter, “The Elucidation of the Buddha’s Smile.
The Bhagavān then said to the youth Candraprabha
“Young man, bodhisattva mahāsattvas thus wish to liberate all beings from all the suffering of existence
They wish to establish beings in the noble, unsurpassable bliss and joy of samādhi
Therefore they should hear this king of samādhis, the revealed equality of the nature of all phenomena
obtain it, understand it, preserve it
recite it to others, promote it, proclaim it
chant it, meditate on it with unadulterated meditation
promulgate it, and make it widely known to others
“Why is that
Young man, this king of samādhis, the revealed equality of the nature of all phenomena
causes one to transcend all lower existence and be freed from all illness
“Young man, when bodhisattva mahāsattva
hear this king of samādhis, the revealed equality of the nature of all phenomena, obtain it, and meditate on it
They will establish them in the noble, unsurpassable bliss and joy of samādhi, this samādhi will be quickly attained
then, young man, those bodhisattva mahāsattvas liberate all beings from all the sufferings of existence
and the highest, complete enlightenment of perfect buddhahood will be quickly attained.
Thereupon the Bhagavān, in order to teach this meaning to Candraprabha
repeated what he had previously said by explaining it in the following verses
“I remember that, as I was practicing in the past, In the teaching of Sugata Siṃhadhvaj
There was a wise bhikṣu, a dharmabhāṇaka Whose name was Brahmadatta.
“At that time I was Prince Mati. I was tormented by the pain of an illness
The dharmabhāṇaka Brahmadatta Became my teacher at that time.
“More than five hundred physicians Diligently sought to cure that illness
But they were unable to cure me of my disease. Everyone in my family was in suffering.
“The bhikṣu heard about my illness, And he came to me and asked about it
Brahmadatta felt great pity for me, And he taught me this supreme samādhi.
Those who seek entry into this sublime samādhi, Through that path will attain enlightenment
It is the knowledge of the purity of the three aspects of actions
It is guarding conduct. It is having unshakable conduct
It is uncontrived conduct. It is engaging in conduct that is attractive
“It is the knowledge of skill in what is beneficial and what is not beneficial
“When I had heard this sublime samādhi I experienced a noble, nonworldly joy
I understood the essential nature of phenomena And at that time I was healed of my disease.
“That wise dharmabhāṇaka bhikṣu was Dīpaṃkara While he was practicing bodhisattva conduct
And I was Prince Mati, who was freed from illness Through the wisdom of the samādhi.
“Therefore, young man, in the future Remember past declines like that
Tolerate the bad things the foolish will say And keep and recite this samādhi.
“In future time, there will be many bhikṣus Who will be covetous, malicious, and without restraint
They will enjoy bad actions and be attached to alms bowls and robes, And they will reject completely this samādhi.
“They will be unstable, distracted by their senses, and envious, Attached to families and desiring gain
They will always be engaged in familiarity with them And they will reject completely this samādhi.
“They will strike with their hands and feet. They will always engage in fun and play
They will embrace each other and hold hands, And will do other kinds of laypeople’s activities.
“They will have the signs of inappropriate activity. They will always desire the daughters of others
They will be excited and captivated by bodies, And roam through the villages, towns, and regions.
“They will always be engaged in eating and drinking, And similarly in dance, song, and music
They will always be dedicated to buying and selling. Attached to drinking, they will cast aside their shame.
“They will carry letters, engaging in inappropriate activity, And likewise discard correct conduct and the pure path
They will break the rules through dwelling with families, And having broken them continue engaging in incorrect conduct.
“They will be fraudulent with weights and measures, Always engaging in actions that the buddhas have rejected
Through doing those actions that are sinful and defiled, They will have bad karma and will go to the lower realms.
“They will enter homelessness, forsaking home, Conches, gold and jewels, and great wealth
But having entered homelessness within the Buddha’s teaching, They will continually engage in bad actions.
“They will see wealth and grain as essential. They will be attached to dairy cows, cattle, and carriages
These people who do not follow the training, Why will they have shaved their heads?
“In the past I practiced bodhisattva conduct, Which was extremely difficult, for thousands of eons
I did so seeking this samādhi of peace, But they will laugh when they hear of it.
“For a long time they will lie and will not be celibate. Always enjoying what is harmful, they will descend to the lower realms
They will hold up the banner of celibacy, But will have bad conduct and what they teach will not be the Dharma.
“They will be divided against each other. They will yearn for that which is acquired inappropriately
They will say unpleasant things to each other, And when they die they will go to the level of the lower existences.
“It will be hard to find among a hundred, a thousand, One who has the power of patience
Therefore there will be many who are deeply involved in quarreling. They will explain elaborately, having rejected patience.
“They will say the words, ‘I am a bodhisattva,’ And those words will spread in every direction
They will become conceited through their arrogant, false words, But how can there be enlightenment for someone whose conduct has gone astray?
“I have never heard of, nor have I seen
Someone whose motivation is not pur
And who has no patience for these phenomena, Attaining enlightenment after discarding the Dharma.
“It is through fear and anxiety they will have abandoned their homes And held firmly to the homeless life
But having acute desires they will proceed toward destruction, Forsaking the way of the supreme humans.
“They will have inferior wisdom and be devoid of good qualities, And they will always be criticizing the supreme yāna
They will always be talking about the hundreds of faults Of that in which they have taken refuge.
“Many will have entered homelessness because they had no livelihood. They will have no wish at all for the enlightenment of buddhahood
Those foolish ones will maintain the view of a self And become afraid when they hear of emptiness.
“They will quarrel with each other And develop intractable evil malice
They will say unpleasant things to each other And find great joy in having done bad things.
“Those who have correct conduct will have good qualities. They will always remain loving and be skilled in patience
They will be perfectly gentle, kind, and controlled— Yet they will be the ones despised at that time.
“Those who have wicked minds, Who are dreadful, and accomplish terrible, very low actions
Those whose conduct is not that of the Dharma and who enjoy fighting: They will have offerings made to them at that time.
“I declare this, I know this. Young man, if you have faith in me
Remember this teaching by the Sugata And never depend on those others.
“They will have strong desire and strong anger. They will have strong ignorance and be conceited and arrogant
They will have unrestrained bodies and unrestrained speech And unrestrained minds, and will descend to the lower existences.
“I have recited the praises of those qualities But the bhikṣus will not practice these qualities
Enlightenment is not attained by mere words. For one who is dedicated to practice, enlightenment will not be difficult to attain.”
Conclusion of the sixteenth chapter, “The Past.
When the Bhagavān had finished speaking, the bodhisattva mahāsattva Maitreya, who was seated there, in his mind recited this verse to the Bhagavān
“I am going, Tathāgata, to the king of mountains, Gṛdhrakūṭa, which is always the residence of the buddhas
When I have gone there, lamp of the world, I will make inconceivable offerings to you.” {i
The Bhagavān knew the thoughts that were in the bodhisattva mahāsattva Maitreya’s mind
and from his own mind sent this verse to the bodhisattva mahāsattva Maitreya
“Go, Ajita, you who have conquered the māras, To the king of mountains where jinas reside
There you will quickly accomplish A great unsurpassable benefit for beings.” {ii
So the bodhisattva mahāsattva Maitreya, having received in his mind that verse from the Bhagavān
paid homage to the Bhagavān in his min
and, again in his mind, circumambulated him three times
All the area was decorated by the clothing of Tuṣita devas
The ground was comprised of countless shining sapphire jewels and was adorned by divine adornments and jewels
all of them beyond compare, and beautified by an array of innumerable, different kinds of jewels
He then left the assembly and went to Gṛdhrakūṭa, the king of mountains, which has been the residence of countless buddhas
he magically transformed the king of mountains to become level and vast, without any tree stumps, thorns, stones, pebbles, or gravel, and with a surrounding wall made of the seven jewel
as numerous as the grains of sand in the ocean, and where there is a great caitya. The moment he arrived there, for the enjoyment of the Bhagavān
pervaded by the aroma of incense from a variety of censers, adorned by garlands and wreaths
scattered with various flowers; it resounded with the sound of divine music
It was said
He manifested the mountain as a divine, vast place With excellent, beautiful jewel flagstones
Inconceivable, divine, formed from the mind— And he placed in the center a precious lion throne. {iii
Jinaputra Ajita also manifested A divine, splendid parasol that emitted delightful sound
The bodhisattva mahāsattva Maitreya now emanated an inconceivable, adorning array of various jewels on Gṛdhrakūṭa, the king of mountains, and in its entire environs
Then, in an instant, he returned to the home of the youth Candraprabha
Once he was back there, in his mind he paid homage to the Bhagavān, and in his mind circumambulated him three times. He then sat on his seat
And there was emanated a precious, vast parasol, with a handle made of a great, precious jewel of stainless beryl
In all directions there were great shining jewels
Strung upon the lion throne were strings of divine, precious bells from which came clear, beautiful, gentle sounds
It was covered with a net of strings of pearls, and it was draped in divine, precious cottons
Its beautiful footstool, made of Jambu River gold, transcended that of humans and devas
It was a yojana wide and a yojana high
A central awning hung above, and there were two red cushions placed upon it
It was draped in cloth that was not woven, and covered with divine clothing from Tuṣita that was as soft and pleasant to the touch as dow
In the center of this area a divine lion throne made from the seven jewels was emanated
was filled with erect and fluttering banners and flags, and over it canopies were suspended
And a precious seat that was a krośa in size, In one instant returned to the house. {v
Then the Bhagavān taught the Dharma to the great assembly that was like an ocean
He inspired them, he filled them with joy, and he guided them. Then he rose from his seat and departe
He was encircled by the assembly of bhikṣus
and the saṅgha of bodhisattvas gazed upon him from the front
And with the miraculous power of a buddha he emerged through Rājagṛha’s gate of the hot spring
and proceeded toward Gṛdhrakūṭa, the king of mountains
When he arrived he went to the site created by Maitreya, and having arrived there he sat upon the great lion throne that Maitreya had manifested
The devas, nāgas, yakṣas, gandharvas, asuras
rishis, garūḍas, kiṃnaras, mahoragas, humans, and nonhuman
Then the youth Candraprabha arrived together with a hundred thousand quintillion beings
paid homage to him. Within the ocean-like assembly, he taught the Dharma
and many millions of bodhisattva mahāsattvas who had come from other worlds
They bowed down their heads to the Bhagavān’s feet, circumambulated him three times
In order to ask about the Dharm
they sat in that place with veneration and with respect while the youth Candraprabha, kneeling on his right knee, with palms placed together
made a great offering to him of flowers, incense, perfume, garlands, ointments, powders, clothes, food, parasols, banners, and flags, playing music and percussion, and then they sat down in one place
In order to make this offering to the Bhagavān they left the great city of Rājagṛha through the gateway of peace
They were holding flowers, incense, and garlands; playing musical instruments and percussion; holding parasols, banners, and divine flags; and holding great garlands as offerings
and went to Gṛdhrakūṭa, to the Bhagavān
bowed toward the Bhagavān and said to him, “If the Bhagavān will give me an opportunity to seek answers to them
I have a few questions for the Bhagavān, the tathāgata, the arhat, the perfectly enlightened Buddha.
The Bhagavān addressed the youth Candraprabha, saying
“Young man, the Bhagavān will always give you the opportunity
Ask whatever question you wish to the Tathāgata, the arhat, the perfectly enlightened Buddha.
The Bhagavān having given him this opportunity, the young man Candraprabha asked
“Bhagavān, it is through possessing what qualities that bodhisattva mahāsattvas attain the samādhi, the revealed equality of the nature of all phenomena?
The Bhagavān replied to Candraprabha
“Young man, if bodhisattva mahāsattvas possess four qualities, they will attain the samādhi, the revealed equality of the nature of all phenomena
“What are those four qualities
Young man, one is that bodhisattva mahāsattvas are calm, and pleasant company
They have self-restraint, and have attained a level of self-restraint such that when others abuse them or insult them
they will be patient with the abuse and the insults that are spoken, for it is their nature to have endurance
they have the view of karma, have overcome pride, and their desire is for the Dharma
Young man, if bodhisattva mahāsattvas have this first quality, they will attain this samādhi
“Another, young man, is that bodhisattva mahāsattvas have correct conduct
They have pure conduct, conduct that is not impaired, conduct that is free of faults, conduct that is unshakable
conduct that is unstained, conduct that has not declined, conduct that is unattached
conduct that is inviolate, conduct that is beyond conceptualization, conduct that is praised by the āryas, and conduct that is praised by the wise
Young man, if bodhisattva mahāsattvas have these two qualities, they will attain this samādhi
“Another, young man, is that bodhisattva mahāsattvas are frightened of the three realms
and they thus proceed to the highest, complete enlightenment of perfect buddhahood
‘I shall deliver other beings from their suffering, to somewhere other than the three realms
Because they are distressed by the three realms they are dedicated to the thought
They are terrified of them, saddened by them, do not value them, take no delight in them, and have no attachment or clinging to them
Young man, bodhisattva mahāsattvas who have these three qualities will attain this samādhi
“Moreover, young man, bodhisattva mahāsattvas have faith. They insatiably seek the Dharma
They listen to many teachings. They have confidence. They long for the Dharma. They are devoted to the Dharma
They are not devoted to obtaining material gain or honors. They are not devoted to attaining success through knowledge
They think first of what will benefit others, and they teach and explain extensively to others the Dharma that they have received
Young man, bodhisattva mahāsattvas who have these four qualities will attain this samādhi
“Young man, bodhisattva mahāsattvas who have these four qualitie
will attain the samādhi, the revealed equality of the nature of all phenomena
and they will quickly attain the highest, complete enlightenment of perfect buddhahood
“Young man, the samādhi has been taught through this Dharma discourse by many buddhas
has been commended by many buddhas, has been explained by many buddhas, and has been praised by many buddhas
They have no desire for material gain through their reputation
They think, ‘If these beings can hear this Dharm
and has been praised by many buddhas
“Young man, I have entered homelessness in the presence of many buddha bhagavāns
I heard extensively from them this samādhi, the revealed equality of the nature of all phenomena
I obtained it, asked questions about it, preserved it, recited it to others, promoted it
meditated on it with unadulterated meditation, promulgated it, and made it widely known to others.
“After him there was a buddha, A supreme man named Jñāneśvara
Jñāneśvara, highest of humans, Had a lifespan of twelve thousand years.
“After Jñāneśvara there was a buddha, A jina who was named Tejeśvara
Tejeśvara, highest of humans, Had a lifespan of sixty-seven thousand years.
“After Tejeśvara there was a buddha, A jina who was named Matīśvara
Matīśvara, highest of humans, Had a lifespan of ten million years.
“After Matīśvara there was a buddha, A jina who was named Brahmeśvara
Brahmeśvara, highest of humans, Had a lifespan of fourteen thousand years.
“After Brahmeśvara there was a buddha, A jina who was named Agnīśvara
Agnīśvara, highest of humans, Had a lifespan of seventy-six thousand years.
“After Agnīśvara there was a buddha, A jina who was named Brahmānana
Brahmānana, highest of humans, Had a lifespan of seven days.
After Brahmānana there was a buddha, A jina who was named Gaṇeśvara
Gaṇeśvara, highest of humans, Had a lifespan of a full ten million years.
Tathāgata Svarāṅgaghoṣa Had a lifespan of six thousand years.
“I remember countless, innumerable eons ago There was a jina named Svarāṅgaghoṣa
Thereupon the Bhagavān taught extensively in verse what he had previously said about the samādhi doorway taught by many buddhas
“After Gaṇeśvara there was a buddha, A jina who was named Ghoṣeśvara
Ghoṣeśvara, highest of humans, Had a lifespan of ninety million years.
“After Ghoṣeśvara there was a buddha, A jina who was named Ghoṣānana
Ghoṣānana, highest of humans, Had a lifespan of a hundred million years.
“After Ghoṣānana there was a buddha, A jina who was named Candrānana
Candrānana, highest of humans, Had a lifespan of one day.
“After Candrānana there was a buddha, A jina who was named Sūryānana
Sūryānana, highest of humans, Had a lifespan of eighteen thousand years.
“After Sūryānana there was a buddha, Another jina who was named Brahmānana
Brahmānana, highest of humans, [DP.] Had a lifespan of twenty thousand years.
“After Brahmānana there was a buddha, A jina who was named Brahmaśrava
Brahmaśrava, highest of humans, Had a lifespan of eighteen thousand years.
“In one eon these buddhas appeared Among two hundred guides of the world
Listen as I shall proclaim the names Of these invincible tathāgatas:
“Anantaghoṣa and Vighuṣṭaghoṣa, Vighuṣṭatejas and Vighuṣṭaśabda
Svarāvighuṣṭa and Svarārcita, Svarāṅgaśūra and Svarāṅgaśabda,
“Jñānābala and Jñānaviśeṣaga, Jñānābhibhū and Jñānasamudgata
Jñānārcimat and Jñānābhyudgata, Vighuṣṭajñāna and likewise Jñānaśūra,
“Brahmābala, Brahmavasu, Subrahma, Brahmādeva and similarly Brahmaghoṣa
Brahmeśvara, Brahma­narendra­netra, Brahmasvarāṅga, Brahmadatta,
Gaṇeśvara, highest of humans, Had a lifespan of a full ten million years.
“After Brahmānana there was a buddha, A jina who was named Gaṇeśvara
“Tejobala, Tejavati, Sutejas, Tejeśvara and Tejasamudrata
Tejovibhu and Tejaviniścita, Tejasvarendra and Suvighuṣṭatejas,
“Bhīṣmabala, Bhīṣmamati, Subhīṣma, Bhīṣmānana and Bhīṣmasamudgata
Bhīṣmārci, Bhīṣmottara, and Bhīṣmaghoṣa— These jinas were guides of the world.
“Gambhīraghoṣa and Śiridhāraṇa, Viśuddha­ghoṣeśvara, Śuddhaghoṣa
Anantaghoṣa, Suvimuktaghoṣa, Mārabala and Māravitrāsana,
“Sunetra, Śuddhānana, Netraśuddha, Viśuddhanetra and Anantanetra
Samantanetra and Vighuṣṭanetra, Netrābhibhu, Netrānindita,
“Dāntottara, Dānta, Sudāntacitta, Sudānta, Śāntendriya, Śāntamānasa
And having heard it remembers that renowned name, They will quickly attain this samādhi.”
“Whoever hears the name of those jinas, Svabhāva­dharmottara­niścit
These are the guides that appeared in two eons. I made offerings to them for the sake of enlightenment.
“Also there were eight hundred million with the same name Of Svabhāva­dharmottara­niścita
Dharmabala and Sudharmaśūra, And Svabhāva­dharmottara­niścita.
“Dharmadhvaja and similarly Dharmaketu, Dharmottara, Dharma­svabhāvodgat
Gaṇivara, Śuddhajñānin, Mahāgaṇendra and Gaṇendraśūra, And also Gaṇivara­pramocaka, 
“Gaṇendra, Gaṇamukhya, and Gaṇeśvara, Gaṇābhibhu
Śāntottara, Śānta­śriya­jvalanta, Śānta, Praśānteśvara, Śāntiśūra,
“Sthitottara, Śānta, Sudāntacitta, Sudānta, Śāntendriya, Śāntamānasa
Śāntottara, Śāntaśirin, Praśānta, Śāntīya­pāraṃgata and Śāntiśūra,
Brahmeśvara, Brahma­narendra­netra, Brahmasvarāṅga, Brahmadatta,
Then the Bhagavān, through many verses, taught extensively to the youth Candraprabha the samādhi entranceway accomplished by many buddhas in the past
And having heard it remembers that renowned name, They will quickly attain this samādhi.”
“After inconceivable, countless eons Following these buddhas
There was a buddha named Narendraghoṣa, To whom humans and devas made offerings.
“Tathāgata Narendraghoṣa Lived for seventy-six thousand years
And three billion śrāvakas Gathered for his first assembly.
Of those who had the six higher cognitions, the three knowledges, Subdued senses, great powers, great miracles
The cessation of outflows, and who were in their last bodies.
“At that time he had a shining saṅgh
“There was a saṅgha of bodhisattvas Who numbered eight thousand quintillion
They had profound understanding, fearlessness, Great powers, and great miracles.
“They had attained the higher cognitions, eloquence, And they had realized emptiness in everythin
They miraculously went to millions of realms And to even more, as numerous as the sands of the Ganges.
“They came into the presence of that jina And addressed questions to that supreme human
They were accomplished in the sūtras and skilled in definitions. They were shining and moved upon the earth.
“They performed bodhisattva conduct for the benefit of beings. They were powerful sons of the Sugata
They performed no bad actions through desire, And toward them even the devas developed aspirations.
“They had no longings and were detached from the realms of existence. They were in meditation, the field of experience of remaining in dhyāna
They had certainty in the true meaning, and were fearless. They maintained celibacy and were free of defilement.
“They had the confident eloquence of unceasing speech. They were skilled in the meaning of the words and the teaching of definitions
They were the sons of the Buddha who taught everywhere, And they perfectly possessed good karma.
“They maintained superior conduct throughout an infinity of eons; They were always praised and extolled by the guides
“They maintained superior conduct throughout an infinity of eons; They were always praised and extolled by the guides
They taught the words and meaning of liberation. They had perfectly pure conduct free of kleśas.
“They were as unstained as a lotus by water. They were liberated from the three realms, and were vigilant
They were unstained by the eight worldly concerns. They had pure bodies and pure actions.
“They had contentment, great power, and few desires. They were free of grasping and are established in buddha qualities
They were a refuge and friend for all classes of beings. They considered practice, not words, as the essence.
“Wherever they dwelt, there they taught others. They were adopted by all the buddhas
They were trustworthy holders of the treasure of the jinas. They were terrified of the entire three realms.
“Their minds were at peace, they always had the conduct of protectors, And they were blessed by the guides of the world
They taught ten thousand million sūtras, And the buddhas praised their teachings.
“They had forsaken all worldly words. They aspired to emptiness and taught the ultimate
They were like an ocean of good qualities; there was no end to their being praised. Their learning was vast; they were wise and endowed with knowledge.
“If a young man were to recite their praises Continuously for many millions of eon
He would have only uttered a small amount, Like a drop of water from an ocean.
“At that time Narendraghoṣa Taught this samādhi of peace, which is difficult to see
This universe of a thousand million worlds Was filled with devas and nāgas.
“When he taught this samādhi of peace The ground shook in six ways
Devas and humans as numerous as the Ganges sands Became irreversible within the buddha’s wisdom.
“There was a human king, a sovereign Named Śirībala, who was very powerful
He had five hundred sons Who were handsome and attractive to the sight.
“The king had a harem Of eighty thousand million women
The king had daughters Who numbered a full four hundred billion.
The king had daughters Who numbered a full four hundred billion.
“He took the eight poṣadha vows On the full moon day of the Kārtika month
And with the eighty thousand million others He came before the Lord of the World.
“The king bowed down to the feet of the supreme human And sat down before the Jina
The supreme human knew the king’s aspiration And he taught this samādhi.
“When the king had heard this samādhi He abandoned his kingdom as if it were spittle
He renounced his beloved family and kinsmen And entered homelessness in that jina’s teaching.
“His five hundred sons entered homelessness, And also his harem and his daughters
And also his other relatives, Numbering seventy-five quintillion.
“Having entered homelessness along with his children and wives, He kept to the station of acquiring alms foo
And steadfastly wandered in this way for eight years. While remaining in wandering his life came to an end.
“His life having ended, that preeminent king, Being always perfectly focused on a samādhi mind
Was reborn into a king’s family, Appearing miraculously, unstained by a womb. 
“Dṛḍhabala was his father’s name. And his mother’s name was Mahāmatī
As soon as he was born, the prince asked, ‘Is the Lord of the World present?
“ ‘The Lord of the World, who knows my mind, Taught to me the samādhi of peace
It has no causal factors, is free of causal factors, And is the one teaching for beings in existence.
It is the sharp wisdom of the congregation of the tathāgatas. It is entering truth and constant knowledge of the Dharma.
“ ‘It is understanding the skandhas, the equality of the dhātus, And the complete elimination of the āyatanas
It is the direct perception of birthlessness. Does the Jina teach this samādhi?
“ ‘It is discernment, the wisdom that enters peace. It is the knowledge of the different categories of all letters
It is transcending focusing upon the material. Does the Jina teach this samādhi?
“ ‘It is the comprehension of all sounds, and the attainment of joy. It is the enjoyment of praising the sugatas
It is the kindness and honesty that is the way of the āryas. Does the Jina teach this samādhi?
“ ‘It is being pleasant and never frowning. It is being friendly and gentle with a smiling face
It is being first to speak on seeing beings. Does the Jina teach this samādhi?
“ ‘It is being without laziness and respecting the gurus. It is being reverential, paying homage, and being pleasant to see
It is being content with whatever arises, and virtuous. Does the Jina teach this samādhi?
“ ‘It is having a pure livelihood and dwelling in solitary places. It is maintaining the disciplines of mendicancy with no loss of mindfulness
It is being adept in the āyatanas and in the dhātus. Does the Jina teach this samādhi?
“ ‘It is skill in the āyatanas, and the knowledge of the higher cognitions; It is the elimination of the kleśas, and the level of self-subjugation
It is the termination of all the multitudes of mantras. Does the Jina teach this samādhi?
“ ‘It transcends all the states of being in existence. It is remembering previous lives and having no doubt in the Dharma
It is aspiring to the Dharma and seeking to hear it. Does the Jina teach this samādhi?
“ ‘It is a special attainment, being always engaged in meditation. It is the knowledge of downfalls and remaining in emancipation
It is the elimination of propensities through remaining in that emancipation. Does the Jina teach this samādhi?
“ ‘It is the attainment of the perfection of sharp wisdom. It is being as unwavering and unshakable as a mountain
It is the dhāraṇī entranceway that has the characteristic of irreversibility. Does the Jina teach this samādhi?
“ ‘It is always longing for good qualities. It is always avoiding bad qualities
It is never going to the side of the kleśas. Does the Jina teach this samādhi?
Always remaining in a state of celibacy, He will make this samādhi widespread.
He will be adopted by many millions of buddhas And he will make supreme offerings to those guides.
“I prophesy that, remaining in wisdom, Candraprabha’s conduct will be exceptional
In the future times there will be no obstacle To his celibacy or to his life.
“He will know millions of buddhas as clearl
As numerous as sand grains in the Ganges.
As five myrobalan plums in the palm of the hand. And he will make offerings in the future to even more
“Eight hundred million devas and nāgas, And seven hundred billion yakṣas
In future times will be zealous And make offerings to the supreme among humans.
“He will make offerings to the supreme human And will practice this unsurpassable wisdom
In a future time he will become a Lord of the World, A jina by the name of Vimalaprabha.”
The young man was overjoyed On hearing this prophecy about himself
Candraprabha floated up to the height of seven palm trees And remaining in the sky he made this declaration:
“O Jina, you who teach the supreme Dharma, You have the power of a lord of liberating wisdom
You remain in the certainty of supreme wisdom And cannot be defeated by adversaries.
“You have abandoned attachment and reached liberation. You have no attachment to existence, which is devoid of things
You have no conceptualization whatsoever. You have the wisdom of nonattachment toward the three existences.
“You are unstained by any conceptualization. You are free of all conceptualized views
You have meditated perfectly on the path that has no location. You cannot be defeated or hindered by anyone.
“You have no residence in the three realms. You are free from the floods and the knots
You have cut through the bondage of the creepers of craving. You are free of existence and are devoid of existence.
“ ‘It is always longing for good qualities. It is always avoiding bad qualities
It is never going to the side of the kleśas. Does the Jina teach this samādhi?
“ ‘The one who is wise in mastering all training, The one who has mastered remaining in samādhi
The one who inspires beings through knowing their thoughts Teaches the Dharma for the supreme enlightenment of buddhahood.
“ ‘It is unique knowledge, the knowledge of births. It is infinite knowledge, completely perfect knowledge
It is the knowledge of the transition between all existences. Does the Jina teach this samādhi?
“ ‘Abandoning home, aspiring to mendicancy, Finding no joy in the three realms, having no grasping
And rejoicing in controlling the mind: The supreme human teaches that Dharma.
“ ‘Having no attachment for phenomena, Always grasping the supreme Dharma
And having a stable aspiration for the ripening of karma: The supreme human teaches that Dharma.
“ ‘Skill in the vinaya, knowledge of the ripening of karma, The pacification of conflict and quarrels
Freedom from discord, the level that is free of quarrels: The supreme human teaches that Dharma.
“ ‘Having complete patience, never having anger, Always having skill and certainty in the Dharma
Distinguishing between words and having the insight of wisdom: Having developed compassion, he teaches that Dharma.
“ ‘He has taught the knowledge of the past, knowledge of the future, The equality of the three times in the teaching of the sugatas
And the cessation of the three aspects of an action: That is what the Jina, the Lord of the Dharma, teaches.
“ ‘The mind’s perfect stability and one-pointedness, The body’s perfect stability as on the level of the āryas
And at all times guarding the conduct of a mendicant: That is the Dharma that the sage, the preeminent human, teaches.
“ ‘A pleasing sense of modesty and self-respect, Speaking appropriate words, knowledge of the world
The origination of phenomena, and the nature of beings: He teaches that Dharma of the supreme, perfect enlightenment.
“ ‘Benefiting and having a sense of modesty, Abhorring the wickedness of the mind
Never abandoning the mendicant’s discipline, and begging for alms: That is the Dharma that the supreme human teaches.
Abhorring the wickedness of the mind, Never abandoning the mendicant’s discipline
and begging for alms: That is the Dharma that the supreme human teaches.
“ ‘Always maintaining a sense of modesty and self-respect, Speaking reverently to the guru and rising to greet him
Having overcome pride from the beginning: That is what the Jina, the Lord of the Dharma, teaches.
“ ‘That which arises from the mind is the goodness of the mind; There is wisdom’s discrimination, and thus realization
And the region of ignorance is always avoided: He teaches that Dharma of supreme, perfect enlightenment.
“ ‘There is understanding of the mind, the knowledge of words, Being established in definitions, with certainty of meanings
And all that is meaningless is always avoided: That is what the Jina, the Lord of the Dharma, teaches.
“ ‘Always associating with good persons And always avoiding bad persons
And always being attracted to and delighting in the Jina: That is the supreme Dharma that the Jina teaches.
“ ‘The description of designations and appellations, The continual avoidance of the suffering of saṃsāra
And indifference to whether there is gain or no gain: That is the supreme Dharma that the Jina teaches.
“ ‘There is no amazement if honors are gained, There is equanimity when there are no honors
And there is never pride when there are praises: This is nature of the teaching that benefits the world.
“ ‘All abuse and disgrace is endured, There is no association with any householder
And there is no mingling with homeless mendicants: That is what the Jina, the Lord of the Dharma, teaches.
“ ‘Remaining in the Buddha’s scope of conduct, Rejecting all that is not that conduct
And having perfect conduct and a well-controlled mind: That is the way of the Dharma that the Sugata teaches.
“ ‘Always rejecting the dharma of the foolish, Rejecting all that disgraces the family of the Buddha
Always protecting the teaching of the Buddha: That is what the Jina, the Lord of the Dharma, teaches.
“ ‘Speaking little, pleasantly, and articulately, Speaking good and gentle words to others
Subjugating adversaries through the Dharma: That is the nature of the Jina’s teaching.
“ ‘Arriving at the right time, and not the wrong time, Never depending on any ordinary being
Not being saddened on encountering suffering: That is the nature of the Jina’s teaching.
“ ‘Arriving at the right time, and not the wrong time, Never depending on any ordinary being
Not being saddened on encountering suffering: That is the nature of the Jina’s teaching.
“ ‘When seeing the poor, bringing them wealth; When seeing those with bad conduct, feeling compassion
Always teaching those things that are beneficial: That is the nature of the Jina’s teaching.
“ ‘Benefiting beings through the Dharma, Always giving away worldly material things
Never accumulating, never amassing: That is the nature of the Jina’s teaching.
“ ‘Praising correct conduct and condemning bad conduct, Being free of dishonesty and relying on those with correct conduct
Giving away one’s possessions and not relying on wealth: That is the nature of the Jina’s teaching.
“ ‘Providing for the guru with a higher motivation, Doing all that he has told one to do
Never ceasing from serving the dharmabhāṇaka: That is the nature of the Jina’s teaching.
“ ‘Always being respectful and delighted, Remaining continually in a peaceful view
Always being sure of one’s past conduct: That is the nature of the Jina’s teaching.
“ ‘Always following those with correct conduct, With skillful methods shunning concepts
Repelling identification and the characteristics of things: That is the nature of the Jina’s teaching.
“ ‘Being skilled in the words produced within the sūtras, Having certainty in the words that teach the truth
The manifestation of the wisdom of liberation: That is the nature of the Jina’s teaching.
“ ‘Speaking words that are never contradictory, Skillful in the certainty of what is taught
And using words that will not be doubted: That is the nature of the Jina’s teaching. {i
“ ‘Always relying on the Dharma of emptiness, Maintaining fearlessly the power of correct conduct
And applying equality through remaining in samādhi: That is the nature of the Jina’s teaching.
“ ‘Not wishing to attain intellectual knowledge, Keeping the mind free from hypocrisy
And rejecting the creation of any view: That is the nature of the Jina’s teaching.
That is the nature of the Jina’s teaching.
“ ‘Supreme confidence in speech and sublime retention, The limitless radiance of wisdom
And correct eloquence with the power of mantra: That is the nature of the Jina’s teaching.
“ ‘Meditation on the path through this doorway of correct conduct, Excellent practice, instruction, and conduct
And teaching that follows practicing the teaching: That is the nature of the Jina’s teaching.
“ ‘The appropriate patience that is praised by the buddhas, The maintenance of patience that avoids bad actions
And eliminating ignorance by being established in knowledge: That is the nature of the Jina’s teaching.
“ ‘The level of yoga that is based upon wisdom, The mastery of yoga through entering enlightenment
The continual reliance on good beings: That is the nature of the Jina’s teaching.
“ ‘It is the constant avoidance of unrestrained practitioners, It is the level of buddhahood taught by tathāgatas
And it is rejoiced in by all who are wise: That is the nature of the Jina’s teaching.
“ ‘It is rejected by the foolish and ignorant. It is not the level of the numerous śrāvakas
And it is always obtained by the bodhisattvas: That is the nature of the Jina’s teaching.
“ ‘It is realized by the tathāgatas. It is offered to and honored by the devas
It is rejoiced in by a hundred billion Brahmās. Is the Jina teaching this samādhi?
“ ‘Thousands of nāgas always pay homage to it, And so do garūḍas, yakṣas, and kiṃnaras
It is the supreme enlightenment taught by the Jina. Is the Jina teaching this samādhi?
“ ‘It is always obtained by those who are wise. It is the perfect attainment of the best, supreme wealth
It is the supreme nonmaterial medicine of wisdom. Is the Jina teaching this samādhi?
“ ‘It is wisdom’s treasure of unceasing eloquence. Ten million sūtras are contained within it
It is accurate knowledge, the complete knowledge of the three realms. Is the Jina teaching this samādhi?
And it increases fame and garlands of praise
For those to whom this samādhi of peace is taught.
“ ‘It is a boat that crosses to the other shore, It is a ship that crosses a great river
It is a ship that crosses a great river, And it increases fame and garlands of praise
For those to whom this samādhi of peace is taught.
Are praised by all the tathāgatas, Extolled by the chiefs among humans
And unceasingly commended by bodhisattvas.
“ ‘Those who teach this samādhi of peac
“ ‘It is the teaching of love to end bad actions. It is the level of compassion’s equanimity
“ ‘It is the practice of the teaching of the lion’s roar. It originates from the supreme wisdom of buddhahood
It is the seal of the nature of all phenomena. This is the samādhi taught by the guides.
“ ‘It brings the attainment of omniscient wisdom
This is the samādhi of peace taught by the Jina.
It is the conduct of those established in enlightenment, And it also terrifies the army of the māras
This is the samādhi of peace taught by the Jina.
It is the subjugation of adversaries through the Dharma
“ ‘This knowledge is the protection that is based in the Dharma. It is the supreme protection in the midst of enemies
That is the practice of this samādhi, this peace.
“ ‘This is the teaching of the level of eloquence. It is the strengths, the liberations, and likewise the powers
And it is the eighteen unique qualities of a buddha
“ ‘It is seeking the ten strengths, It is the omen of the coming of buddha wisdom
It is the buddhadharma taught by the supreme being, And it is the teaching that compassionately benefits the world.
“ ‘It is possessed by the sons of the buddhas. It is the path taught for those who seek enlightenment
It is rejoiced in by the offspring of the sugatas When they hear this samādhi of peace that is difficult to see.
“ ‘It is the complete wisdom of buddhahood. It is what the wise bodhisattva seeks
One with a pure mind, clear and unblemished, Practices the peace of this samādhi.
“ ‘One who has a pure body like that of the jinas, Who has the knowledge of liberation, the vision of liberation
And who is never afflicted by the bondage of desire, Practices this excellent samādhi.
It is the comfort of the greatly famed one
Practices this excellent samādhi.
“ ‘One who is not on the level of anger and is free of ignorance, In whom wisdom has arisen and who seeks liberation
In whom knowledge has developed and ignorance is destroyed, Practices the peace of this samādhi.
“ ‘This samādhi of peace is taught to the meditator For whom liberation is central, and is fulfilled by this teaching
The one with the sight of the faultless buddhas Practices the peace of this samādhi.
“ ‘The clairvoyance that reveals many realms, The miraculous powers that reveal infinite buddhas
And dhāraṇī is also not difficult to attain For the one who practices this samādhi.
“ ‘The senses are pacified in this state of enlightenment. There is the revelation of infinite blessings
And subtle, vast, and pure wisdom For the one who practices this samādhi.
“ ‘For the one who has not heard this samādhi of peace, Practice without self-restraint will bring no realization
And as all the words will have been subverted, No understanding will be possible from speech.
“ ‘This is known by wise bodhisattvas Just as taught by the Lord of Dharma
There is faultless realization of peace For the one who practices this samādhi.
“ ‘For the one who practices this samādhi With diligent application, having possession of it
Constantly serving it, and perfectly keeping it
There will be cessation of suffering and the end of rebirth.
“ ‘It has been taught that all phenomena are birthless, As are all the existences of beings
Is the Jina teaching this samādhi Of the greatly famous, supremely wise buddhas?’
“A full eighty-eight trillion beings Heard these verses recited by the prince
Attained the patience that corresponded to those words, And were established in irreversible progress toward buddha wisdom.
“Dṛḍhabala said to the prince, ‘The Lord of the World is still present
I have a question for you, my son: Where did you hear of this samādhi?’
“The prince said to the king, ‘Listen! During one eon I have see
A quintillion buddhas, honored them all, And asked them for this samādhi of peace.
“The prince said to the king, ‘Listen! During one eon I have see
A quintillion buddhas, honored them all, And asked them for this samādhi of peace.
“ ‘And for another ninety-four eons, And for a thousand quintillion eons
I remember all my births wherever they were, And I was never born from a womb.
“ ‘Then I meditated upon this samādhi. I listened correctly to the teaching of those jinas
Having heard it I had longing for what had been described. Free from uncertainty I embraced enlightenment.
“ ‘I questioned whatever bhikṣus Had understood this samādhi
I venerated them respectfully As if they were benefactors of the world.
“ ‘When I received even one verse from them I practiced that teaching properl
And considered them to be teachers, Venerating them with the respect shown to buddhas.
“ ‘Whenever someone questioned me About my understanding of this samādhi
Even in dreams I had no doubts That I would become a jina, a guide of the world.
“ ‘I respectfully attended To senior, middle, and junior bhikṣus
With that respect my renown increased, As did my merit, fame, and qualities.
“ ‘I had no desire for conflict or quarrels. At that time, I had few desires
Those who do bad actions are reborn in certain existences. Those who do good actions are reborn in other existences.
“ ‘One hears unpleasant words from those Who, without restraint, act inappropriately
At that time I became the lord of my own actions. The karma that is created is never lost.
“ ‘I did not at that time become absorbed in anger. I maintained the power of patience, which is praised by the buddhas
The guides have always praised patience; Attaining enlightenment is not difficult for those who practice patience.
“ ‘I continually had correct conduct And established others in correct conduct
I always spoke the praises of correct conduct, And what I spoke at that time was praiseworthy.
I always spoke the praises of correct conduct, And what I spoke at that time was praiseworthy.
“ ‘I was always speaking the praises of solitude. I always maintained correct conduct
I established others in the poṣadha vows And I introduced them to enlightenment.
“ ‘I established them in celibacy, I introduced them to the meaning of the Dharma
And I awoke them to the path to enlightenment, For which they had endless devotion.
I took a vow in his presence To have the power of patience at all times.
“ ‘I remember an eon in the past When there was the jina Svarāṅgaghoṣa
“ ‘I remained faithful to that vow For eight hundred and forty million years
Although Māra reviled and abused me, My mind remained unshakable.
“ ‘Māra put me to the test, And discovered my love and patience to be enduring
And with faith he bowed down to my feet, And I established five hundred beings on the path to supreme enlightenment.
And was a benefactor in times of famine.
“ ‘At all times I was free of avarice And always praised generosity
I became wealthy, possessing many riche
“ ‘I pay homage to any monks Who possess this samādhi
Who recite it and teach it. They all become supreme men.
“ ‘Because of that unsurpassable karma I saw many buddhas, many lords of the world
I entered into homelessness in the teachings of those jinas And I always became a wise dharmabhāṇaka.
“ ‘I was always engaged in the discipline of a mendicant. I always remained in the solitude of forests
I never gave the appearance of spirituality in order to obtain food. I was content with whatever I obtained.
“ ‘At all times I was free of envy. I had no attachment to a family
Attachment to family causes envy. Without envy I remained in the pleasant forests.
“ ‘At all times I had loving-kindness. When I was abused I did not become angry
As I was always kind, the garland of fame Of my compassion spread in the four directions.
“ ‘At all times I had loving-kindness. When I was abused I did not become angry
As I was always kind, the garland of fameOf my compassion spread in the four directions.
“ ‘I was always content, with few desires. I was dedicated to mendicancy in solitary places
I never abandoned begging for alms. I remained unwaveringly committed to mendicancy.
“ ‘I always had faith and belief. I always had great belief in the Buddha’s teaching
I obtained many benefits from having belief. I became attractive with faultless faculties.
“ ‘I practiced whatever I taught. I always valued practice above all else
As I valued practice above all else, Devas and nāgas believed in me and honored me.
“ ‘There are also numerous other qualities, Other than these that I have described
They should always be trained in by the wise ones Who wish for the enlightenment of buddhahood.
“ ‘I remember the greatest number of hardships That I practiced through numerous eons
So numerous I am unable to describe them. I will now go into the presence of the Sugata.’
“That wise bodhisattva with sharp wisdom At that moment attained the five higher cognitions
Through miraculous power he came before the Jina, Accompanied by eight hundred million beings.
“Dṛḍhabala was extremely pleased, And, accompanied by one billion six hundred million beings
He came into the presence of the Buddha, Bowed down to his feet, and sat before him.
“Knowing the aspiration of that king, The Lord of humans taught this samādhi
When the king had heard that samādhi He renounced his kingdom and entered homelessness.
“Homeless, he meditated on this samādhi, And he recited it and taught it
After sixty eons had passed He became a jina named Padmottara.
“The one billion six hundred million beings Who had come with the king into the presence of the Jin
Also heard this samādhi, And with the highest joy they entered homelessness.
Also heard this samādhi, And with the highest joy they entered homelessness.
“Homeless, they possessed this samādhi, And recited it and taught it
After six trillion eons had passed They all reached supreme enlightenment in the same eon.
“They all had the name Ananta­jñānanottara. They were buddhas to whom devas and humans made offerings
Each of those supreme humans liberated as many beings As there are grains of sand in the Ganges.
“I was King Śirībala. The practitioners of this supreme bodhisattva conduct
Those who were my five hundred sons, Are these guardians of the Dharma.
“The one who was my mother Was Māyādevī in this time
My four hundred billion daughters All entered nirvāṇa. {b
“The king who was named Dṛḍhabala, The powerful cakravartin with many treasures
Became King Śuddhodana in this age, And has been my father in various lifetimes. {c
“Thus have I for ten billion eons Exercised diligence that is free of laziness
The pure yearning for this samādhi Brings the accomplishment of supreme enlightenment.
“Therefore, young man, those bodhisattvas Who wish to meditate on this samādh
Should exercise diligence, regardless of risks to their lives, And always follow, young man, my example.”
Conclusion of the seventeenth chapter, “The Entranceway to the Samādhi that is Taught by Many Buddhas.
The Bhagavān said to the youth Candraprabha
bodhisattva mahāsattvas who obtain this samādhi
understand it, preserve it, recite it to others, promote it, proclaim it, chant it, and make it widely known to others
“Young man, in that wa
“What are those four beneficial qualities
know that there are four beneficial qualities possessed b
hey will have unlimited wisdom, and they will have unending confidence of speech
They will be unsurpassable in merit, they will be undefeatable by opponents
bodhisattva mahāsattvas who obtain this samādhi
study it, keep it, read it out loud, disseminate it, teach it, chant it, and make it widely known to others will possess these four beneficial qualities.
you should know tha
The Bhagavān then recited these verses
Through attaining this samādhi of peace. That is the range of activity of all the buddhas.
“Throughout time they will be Unsurpassable in meri
Practicing supreme, pure, Unique bodhisattva conduct.
“Throughout time these heroes Will be protected by merit
They will, throughout time, Be in the care of the buddhas.
“There will be no adversar
Whatsoever who can harm them
“Throughout time their wisdom Will be immeasurable
Their confidence will be eternal Through their possessing this state of peace.
They will have most excellent bodhisattva conduct. They will not be attacked by adversarie
“They will have an eternally unsurpassable accumulation of meri
Having come into possession of this samādhi of supreme peace.
“They will have vast and sharp wisdo
And thus will have eternal confidence and pure sight. Those wise ones will always hav
The power of memory and the power of retention.
“The meaningful words that they teach Will be most beautiful to the minds of the wise
Many beings with wisdom will know This supreme peaceful samādhi that is taught.
“They will obtain perfect, excellent Dharma robes, Bedding, invitations, and hard and soft food
Will be very youthful and handsome.
“They will see many buddhas, lords of worlds, And make unequaled offerings to those guides
In seeking this supreme samādhi of peac
They will encounter no impediment.
“They will be in the presence of the lords of worlds And made happy by hundreds of beautiful verses
They will never experience decline.
Having gained this supreme samādhi of peac
And made happy by hundreds of beautiful verses
They will never experience decline.
There will be no decline in their wisdom.
“A Lord of the World will be present before them With the beautiful primary and secondary signs of the body
“They will never be disheartened. They will always be wealthy and never poor
“They will never have an unfavorable existence. They will be world rulers, cakravartin kings
There will be no attachment in their mind.
Their kingdoms will always be happy.
“They will have vast wisdom free of uncertainty Through unceasing teachings for hundreds of eons
Having heard this samādhi, this level of peace, Constant, they will follow whatever has been taught.
“Though one were to describe the benefits of the ten strengths Throughout countless, endless millions of eons
One would not have spoken of even a fraction of them. It would be like taking a drop of water from the ocean.”
At that time the young man, with great joy, Stood up and paid homage with his palms together
Joyfully standing before the one with the ten strengths He uttered these inspired words:
Lord of the World, illuminator
These benefits have been taught to me By you, the Lord of humans.
“Inconceivable great hero
“Compassionate one who wishes to bring benefit, Great hero, pray tell me
Who, in the future, Will listen to this samādhi?”
The Bhagavān, who had unimpeded wisdom, Answered him with these words:
The one with a voice like the avadavat’s song, The Teacher who had taught this to him
Those who follow the Dharma Will be the ones who listens to this sūtra.
“Listen, young man, and I will explain That which is the highest practice
“They will make offerings to the lords of humans; They will seek the wisdom of buddhahood
Developing a loving mind, They will listen to this sūtra.
“Those who have the qualities of mendicancy And the qualities of austerity
And who maintain this practice, Will be ones who listen to this sūtra.
“They will not listen to this sūtra When it is in the hands of those whose acts are evil
Nor of those who have lost their correct conduct Regarding the teaching of the lords of worlds.
Those who have a mind free of craving And who have been consecrated by the buddhas.
Of the celibates, the heroes
“They will hear it when in the hand
“In future times they will hear This sūtra when it is in the hand
Of those who have served the buddhas, The lords of the world, in the past.
“Those who in previous lifetimes Have been tīrthika
Will experience no joy When they hear this sūtra.
“Those who have entered homelessness In my teaching in order to have a livelihoo
Will be under the power of gain and honor, And they will criticize each other.
“Many bhikṣus with unrestrained senses, Who covet the wives of others
Who wish for gain and have poor conduct, Will have no faith in this sūtra.
“Those who do not intend to attain Merit for buddhahood or to attain dhyāna
And who maintain the conception of a self, Will have no faith in this sūtra.
“In future times there will be those Who are intent on the result of worldly dhyānas
They will eat the alms food of arhats And criticize the enlightenment of buddhahood.
Than someone who destroys All the caityas in this Jambudvīpa.
“One who rejects this sūtra Will have greater bad karm
Than someone who kills as many arhats As there are grains of sand in the Ganges.
“Who among you has the fortitude To teach this sūtra In the dreadful future time When the Dharma is ruined?”
The young man stood up, weeping, And at that time spoke to the Jina
This heart-born son of the Buddha Roared thus this lion’s roar:
Roared thus this lion’s roar:
“In the dreadful time in future When the Buddha has passed away
Without concern for my life or body I will spread this sūtra widely.
“I will endure The false talk of fools And, Guide, I will undergo Their abuse and threats.
And any maliciousness Toward other bodhisattvas.”
“I shall cleanse myself of whatever bad actions I have done in the pas
The Buddha, who was the color of gold, Placed his hand upon Candraprabha’s head. The Tathāgata, who had a gentle voice, The Teacher, then said to him,
Young man, in the future There will be no obstacle to your celibac
“I give you my blessing
Nor will there be to your life.”
Eight hundred dharmabhāṇakas Who were present stood up and said
“In future times we also Will be holders of this sūtra.”
Eight hundred million Devas, nāgas, and yakṣas stood up
And another six trillion, And said to the guide of the world,
“Guide, in future times We will protect These bhikṣus who Stood up today.”
When this sūtra was taught, Through the blessing of the Teacher
Buddha realms shook, in numbers Equal to the Ganges sands.
Emanations of the Buddh
Who taught the Dharma there.
The Lord of the World sen
To all those shaken buddha realm
In each of those realms Countless millions of being
Were established in the wisdom of buddhahood When they had heard that Dharma.
Developed the aspiration to enlightenment And scattered flowers on the Buddha.
After eight hundred million eon
They would all, within the same eon, Become guides of the world.
The Lord of men prophesied tha
Bhikṣus and bhikṣuṇīs, Upāsakas and upāsikās
Seven hundred and sixty million beings— All heard this sūtra.
Upāsakas and upāsikās
Seven hundred and sixty million beings— All heard this sūtra.
The Lord of humans prophesie
As there are grains of sand in the Ganges While practicing bodhisattva conduct.
That they would see as many guides of the worl
“They will make offerings to them all, Seeking the wisdom of enlightenment
And here and there they will hear This unsurpassable sūtra.
“They will make unsurpassable offerings To Buddha Maitreya
They will possess the highest Dharma And they will go to Sukhāvatī.
To the stainless buddha, The Tathāgata Amitāyus
For the sake of supreme enlightenment.
“There they will make offering
“Having heard this unsurpassable sūtra They will not go in futur
To the lower existences For seventy-three countless eons.
“Those who in future times Listen to this unsurpassable sūtra
And keep it and read it, Will all be honoring me.
“I make this declaration To all those who are standing before me
I bestow this enlightenment gained with difficulty.”
Conclusion of the eighteenth chapter, “The Entrustment of the Samādhi.
The Bhagavān said to the youth Candraprabha
“Young man, in that way bodhisattva mahāsattvas
having heard the inconceivable and measureless benefits of the qualities that come from the samādhi, the revealed equality of the nature of all phenomena
through wishing not to be fearful, wishing not to be terrified, and not to be gripped by terror
will become learned in the teaching of the inconceivable Dharma of the Buddha
Aspire to the inconceivable Dharma of the Buddha
Be wise in asking questions about the inconceivable Dharma of the Buddha
Be wise in seeking the inconceivable Dharma of the Buddha
Do not be fearful, do not be terrified, and do not be gripped by terror on hearing the inconceivable Dharma of the Buddha.
The youth Candraprabha placed his palms together, bowed toward the Bhagavān, and asked him
“Bhagavān, in this way how do bodhisattva mahāsattvas aspire to the inconceivable Dharma of the Buddha
become wise in asking questions about the inconceivable Dharma of the Buddha, become wise in seeking the inconceivable Dharma of the Buddha
and not be fearful, not be terrified, and not be gripped by terror on hearing the inconceivable Dharma of the Buddha?
The Bhagavān replied to the youth Candraprabha
“Bodhisattva mahāsattvas who listen to and hear this samādhi, the revealed equality of the nature of all phenomena
They will aspire to the inconceivable Dharma of the Buddha
they will become wise in asking questions about the inconceivable Dharma of the Buddha
and will not be fearful, will not be terrified, and will not be gripped by terror on hearing the inconceivable Dharma of the Buddha.
accomplishing the benefits of the qualities that come from the samādhi, the revealed equality of the nature of all phenomena
he again heard from the Bhagavān countless, innumerable verses describing the benefits of the qualities that come from the samādhi, the revealed equality of the nature of all phenomena
and it was at that time that the youth Candraprabha attained this king of samādhis, the revealed equality of the nature of all phenomena
“After the youth Candraprabha had been taught by the Bhagavān these words o
Innumerable, countless bodhisattva mahāsattvas attained the great, higher cognitions
and obtain it, understand it, keep it, read it out loud, disseminate it, meditate on it with unadulterated meditation
promulgate it, and make it widely known to others, those bodhisattva mahāsattva
will become wise in the teaching of the inconceivable Dharma of the Buddha
Countless beings also developed the motivation that is directed toward great compassion
This universe of a thousand million worlds shook in six ways
It trembled, trembled strongly, and trembled intensely
it quivered, quivered strongly, and quivered intensely
it shook, shook strongly, and shook intensely
it shuddered, shuddered strongly, and shuddered intensely
it quaked, quaked strongly, and quaked intensely
the east sank and the west rose, the west sank and the east rose
the north sank and the south rose, the south sank and the north rose
the perimeter sank and the center rose, and the center sank and the perimeter rose
An immeasurable radiance shone in the universe. There fell a great rain of divine incense
Devas and their sons gathered in order to listen to the Dharma
High in the sky they heard the innumerable verses on the benefits of the qualities that come from the samādhi, the revealed equality of the nature of all phenomena
All the devas and their sons felt pleased, delighted, thrilled, joyous, happy, and glad, and they emitted cries of joy and laughter
They let fall a great rain of divine flowers of various kinds
They played many thousands of trillions of divine musical instruments
And they proclaimed the following words together as one voice
“Aho! We have obtained something that is excellent to obtain
We have heard the innumerable verses on the benefits of the qualities from the Bhagavān
Bhagavān, just as the bodhisattva mahāsattva, the youth Candraprabha, attained this samādhi, the revealed equality of the nature of all phenomena
we also, Bhagavān, will all together at the same time attain this samādhi, the revealed equality of the nature of all phenomena.
At the time when the Bhagavān was teaching the Dharma on Vulture Peak Mountain to the assembly that was like an ocean
the gandharva Pañcaśikha, in order to honor and serve him, descended from the sky accompanied by the sound of five hundred musical instruments
and remained before the Bhagavān
The gandharva Pañcaśikha thought
“Just as I render service and honor in Sudharma before the devas of Trāyastriṃśa and Śakra, the lord of the devas
by singing them songs, in that same way I shall sing in order to make an offering to the god of gods, the Tathāgata, the arhat, the perfectly enlightened Buddha.
Then the gandharva Pañcaśikha stood up before the Bhagavān holding a lute, the body of which was made of beryl
He was accompanied by the music of five hundred other gandharvas holding musical instruments
The Bhagavān thought, “I shall perform a miracle so that the youth Candraprabha will attain skill in the realization of the inconceivable Dharma of the Buddha
so that he will not waver from the samādhi, the revealed equality of the nature of all phenomena
and so that I may manifest the gandharva Pañcaśikha’s skill in singing and playing the lute.
Then the Bhagavān performed that miracle, and through the power of the Buddha the five hundred instruments were played excellently
From that excellent playing there came the sound of the inconceivable meaning, which was united with the true nature
And these verses of the realization of the inconceivable Dharma of the Buddha were sung
“Within the breadth of one hair there are as many buddhas As the number of grains of sand in the Ganges
And those jinas have as many buddha realms, too, Each one separate and with distinct characteristics.
“Within the breadth of one hair there are the five kinds of beings: The beings in hell, those who are animals
Those in the realm of Yama, the devas, and humans, Without overlapping or being squeezed.
Those in the realm of Yama, the devas, and humans, Without overlapping or being squeezed.
The beings in hell, those who are animals
“Within that space there are the lakes and oceans, All rivers, and similarly ponds and springs
Without overlapping or being squeezed. In that way the Buddha’s Dharma is inconceivable.
“Within that space there are numerous mountains: Cakravāla, Meru, and Sumeru, Mucilinda and Mahāmucilinda, Vindhya, Gṛdhrakūṭa, and Himavat.
“Within that space there are the terrible hells, The horrible Tāpana and Pratāpana
Those who have fallen into those hells Experience the sensation of suffering.
“Within that space there are divine palaces, Twelve yojanas in size and beautiful
Within them there are many thousands of devas Who experience bliss in divine pleasures.
“Within that space there are the births of buddhas. There is illumination from the teaching of those who know the world
Those who have not trained in pure conduct And who have no wisdom will not see them.
“Within that space they hear the words, ‘The Dharma has ceased, the Guide has passed away.
Within that space there are some who hear, ‘The Guide lives and he teaches the Dharma.’
“Within that space there are some who perceive That they live for countless years
Within that space there are those whose time is ending. They hear the words, ‘You have not long to live.’
“Within that space there are some who have the perception, Believing what their mind perceives
Of seeing and making offerings to sugatas and pleasing the buddhas. Yet there is no arising and no making of offerings.
“A man dreams he is in a house Experiencing the bliss of sensory pleasures
When he awakes he does not see those pleasures. He knows that it was a dream.
“In that way, what is seen, heard, thought, or known, All of this is unreal, like a dream
The one who has attained the samādhi Will know this nature of phenomena.
“For people such as this there is no pleasure or displeasure. They are always perfectly happy in the world
Those who delight in vast forests Become perfectly happy mendicants.
They are always perfectly happy in the world. Those who delight in vast forest
Wander in the world like rhinoceroses And roam like the wind through the air.
Become perfectly happy mendicants.
“Those who have no thought of ‘mine,’ Those who have abandoned all attachments
“Meditation on the path, the development of wisdom, The emptiness and selflessness of all phenomena
He who meditates on these Dharmas Will have unending confidence.
“The people in the world whose minds have no attachment
Their minds are always like the wind, Knowing no attachment to pleasure or displeasure.
They are perfectly happy in this world
“It is suffering to be with that which is unpleasant; It is suffering to be separated from that which is pleasant
Finally abandoning both of these, Those happy people delight in the Dharma.
“The one who has attachment on hearing this Dharma, And animosity on hearing that which is not Dharma
Goes astray through conceit and pride, And overpowered by pride, experiences suffering.
“Those who remain in equanimity Are always free of arrogance and depression
When faced with the pleasant and the unpleasant They always have a liberated mind.
“Those who maintain perfectly pure correct conduct, Who remain always in inconceivable dhyān
And delight in the peace of the forests, Will never know the arising of doubts.
“Those who engage in that which is unreal, The fools who are always enjoying sensory pleasure
Like vultures attracted to a corpse, They always fall under the power of Namuci.”
When these verses had been created through the sound of the lutes
the youth Candraprabha attained skill in the realization of the inconceivable Dharma of the Buddha
the gandharva Pañcaśikha attained the patience that was in accord with that sound
countless beings, both devas and humans, developed the aspiration to the highest, complete enlightenment; and countless beings were benefitted
both devas and humans, developed the aspiration to the highest, complete enlightenment
and countless beings were benefitted
Conclusion of the nineteenth chapter, “The Teaching of the Inconceivable Dharma of the Buddha.
Then the Bhagavān said to the youth Candraprabha
“Young man, in that way bodhisattva mahāsattvas who wish for this Dharma teaching of entering great compassio
and wish to attain the highest, complete enlightenment of perfect buddhahood quickl
should rely upon all roots of merit, training, qualities, and completely pure conduct
“Bodhisattva mahāsattvas who have few involvements, avoid bad companions, rely on kalyāṇamitras
have an inquiring nature, unrelentingly seek the Dharma, have the Dharma as their goal, desire the Dharma, delight in the Dharma
obtain the Dharma, and practice the Dharma in accord with the Dharma will, young man, develop great compassion for being
and will develop the aspiration for the highest, complete enlightenment
“Moreover, young man, bodhisattva mahāsattvas who wish for this Dharma teaching of entering great compassio
should be diligent, without regard for life or body
and should continuously seek kalyāṇamitras who teach this Dharma teaching of entering great compassion
and unwaveringly serve them, rely upon them, and honor them
“Young man, bodhisattva mahāsattvas who with a higher motivation seek kalyāṇamitra
should hear from them the Dharma teaching of entering great compassion
and should obtain it, understand it, preserve it
recite it to others, promote it, proclaim it, chant it, meditate on it with unadulterated meditation
promulgate it, and make it widely known to others
They should, with joy and veneration, perceive as the Teacher the person from whom they hear this Dharma teaching on entering great compassion
“Young man, when bodhisattva mahāsattvas search for kalyāṇamitras, and respect them and serve them without weariness
at that time, young man, those bodhisattva mahāsattvas easily attain the highest, complete enlightenment of perfect buddhahoo
and they obtain this Dharma teaching on easily entering great compassio
“Young man, in that way bodhisattva mahāsattvas should constantly seek for kalyāṇamitras as if their head or clothing were on fire
and unwaveringly attend upon them, serve them, and venerate them
“Why is that
Young man, for bodhisattva mahāsattvas the highest, complete enlightenment of perfect buddhahood
not even to speak of this Dharma teaching on entering great compassion, depends upon kalyāṇamitras
“Therefore, young man, you should always practice by thinking, ‘I will not weary of seeking kalyāṇamitras, venerating them, and serving them.
” Thereupon the Bhagavān, in order to make clear this Dharma teaching on entering great compassion
gave the youth Candraprabha the teaching that had been given in the past in detail in the form of the following verses
“Many incalculable, innumerable, Inconceivable millions of eons in the past
There was the highest of humans, The Guide named Indra­ketu­dhvaja­rāja.
“He taught this samādhi of peace In which there is no human, soul, or person
‘All phenomena are like the moon on water, Illusions, bubbles, mirages, and lightning.
“ ‘There is no human, no descendant of Manu, to be found Who goes to the next world when his time has come to an end
However, the karma that has been created will not disappear, But will give corresponding black or white results.
“ ‘There is no human, no descendant of Manu, to be found Who goes to the next world when his time has come to an end
However, the karma that has been created will not disappear, But will give corresponding black or white results.
“ ‘This is the excellent doorway of the way of logic, The subtle, difficult-to-see realm of experience of the jinas
The Bhagavān knows the enlightenment of buddhahood In which there are there no words or letters to be found.
“ ‘Vast retention and the accumulation of wisdom Come from a hundred thousand trillion sūtras
The Bhagavān teaches the samādhi That is the field of experience of a hundred thousand trillion buddhas.
“ ‘This frees the sick from their illness. It is the wealth accomplished by bodhisattvas
It is praised and extolled by all buddhas; A hundred thousand trillion devas make offerings to it.
“ ‘It is condemned by all foolish beings, And the tīrthikas always reject it
It is the supreme wealth of conduct that is praised by the buddhas. It is as undefiled as lightning in the sky.
“ ‘Those who make offerings to millions of jinas Are wise in the practice of generosity and correct conduct
Have forsaken their previous bad companions, And have an unsurpassable inheritance of wealth.’
“There was present a bhikṣu, a dharmabhāṇaka, A celibate who was the heart son of the Sugata
When he had heard this benevolent Dharma, He developed the aspiration to be a guide of the world.
“The Guide, Indra­ketu­dhvaja­rāja, Said to the dharmabhāṇaka
‘Bhikṣu, develop the supreme, difficult-to-attain Motivation for the highest enlightenment.
“ ‘Maintain the conduct that is like a precious jewel, Always depend on favorable friends
Never depend on friends whose actions are evil And before long you will attain buddha wisdom.’
“The one who developed the aspiration to enlightenment In the presence of Indra­ketu­dhvaja­rāj
Became a supreme dharmabhāṇaka, A celibate who was the heart son of the Sugata.”
Conclusion of the twentieth chapter, “Indra­ketu­dhvaja­rāja.
Then the Bhagavān said to the youth Candraprabha
“Therefore, young man, bodhisattva mahāsattvas should entertain no misgivings about all the teachings on the root of merits, the training, and the qualities
They should have few involvements
avoid bad companions, rely on kalyāṇamitras, have an inquiring nature, unrelentingly seek the Dharma
have the Dharma as their goal, desire the Dharma, delight in the Dharma, obtain the Dharma, and practice the Dharma in accord with the Dharma
They should perceive every buddha and bodhisattva as the teacher
They should with joy and veneration perceive as the teacher the person from whom they hear this Dharma teaching
“Young man, bodhisattva mahāsattva
who adopt and follow this Dharma teaching of entertaining no misgivings about all the teachings on the root of merits
the training, and the qualities will quickly display unending confidence of speech
They will accomplish the inconceivable Dharma of the Buddha
They will realize the profound Dharma of the Buddha
They will be like a light that dispels the darkness of perplexity, uncertainty, and doubt of the people of the world and the devas.
Then at that time, in order to relate this Dharma teaching of entertaining no misgivings about all the teachings on the root of merits, the training, and the qualities
he spoke to the youth Candraprabha these verses that told of the past
“In the past, in this world named Jambudvīpa, There were two excellent sons who were not heedless
They entered homelessness in the teaching of a sugata, And dwelt like rhinoceroses in a grove of trees.
“They had miraculous powers and had attained the four dhyānas, They were very learned and skilled in composing poetry and texts
They were very learned and skilled in composing poetry and texts
They had mastered levitating up into the air, And they could travel freely through the sky.
That was filled with a variety of beautiful flowers And attended by flocks of varieties of birds.
“They were engaged in conversatio
In that cool grove of tree
“A king who was pursuing a deer Heard their voices and entered that grove
The monarch saw the two dharmabhāṇakas And with the greatest joy he approached them.
“They addressed each other agreeably And the king sat down before them
The king’s multitudinous army Of sixty quintillion soldiers approached.
“Then both of those dharmabhāṇakas Said to the king, ‘Listen, Kṣatriya
It is very difficult to reach supreme buddhahood. Monarch, always be careful!
“ ‘Life is always passing and never stays. It passes as quickly as a mountain stream
From the torment of illness, misery, and aging You have no other refuge than good actions.
“ ‘Supreme king, be a protector of the Dharma. Guard the teaching of the one with ten strength
In this utterly terrible time of degeneration. Remain on the side of Dharma, supreme king!’
“Thus the wise ones at that time Gave much advice to that sovereign
Following which the monarch, with the other six quintillions, Developed the aspiration to enlightenment.
“When the supreme king had heard the Dharma, He was joyful, very happy, and enrapture
With those who had spoken it so gently and pleasantly, And bowed down to their feet before departing.
“Under that king there were many other bhikṣus Who desired gain and who entered homes
When he saw how dissimilar was their conduct The king did not show them respect.
“The teacher of the teaching had passed away And this was the time of the latter years
There were very few worthy recipients in Jambudvīpa, And there were present many who were without self-control.
“The many bhikṣus, who were desirous and greedy, Yearned for acquisitions, held the view of objective reality
Yearned for acquisitions, held the view of objective reality
And had fallen away from the Sugata’s teaching, At that time repeatedly urged the king to action.
“ ‘You must kill those two dharmabhāṇakas. They are tīrthikas who are teaching nihilism
Among those who have adopted that practice for a long time There are none who have attained nirvāṇa.
“ ‘They deny karma, they deny ripening; Those imposters teach that there are no skandhas
Your Majesty, banish them from the land And then the Dharma will remain for a long time.’
“When he had listened to what they had to say, The elephant-like king became distrustful
‘I shall kill these two dharmabhāṇakas. I must not leave them alone, for that would be harmful.’
“The king was attended by a goddess Who had practiced with him in a previous lifetime
She was wise and had benefited him for a long time, And at this time she said to the sovereign king,
“ ‘Kṣatriya, do not think in this way Because of what bad associates have said
Do not kill those two wise dharmabhāṇakas Because of what bad associates have said.
In this perfectly terrible time of degeneration, Remain on the side of Dharma, elephant-like king!’
Of what they said to you in the forest grove
“ ‘Lord of men, do you not remember even a littl
“The king, inspired by those true words, Did not abandon the teachings of the jinas
But the king had a cruel brother Who was persuaded by those around him. {b–a
“They told him, ‘The king, your brother, is wicked; He has no joy in being alive
Those two bhikṣus possess dreadful spells. With those spells they can fly through the sky.
“ ‘Having heard this we have come to you, To tell you all that has occurred
Quickly kill those dreadful magicians, Or afterward you will be filled with regret.’
“Then the king’s brother put on his armor, Under the influence of those bad associates
The king’s brother, encircled by his entire army, Came to the forest where the two bhikṣus dwelt.
“The nāgas and yakṣas that lived in that forest Knew the intention of the king’s dreadful, cruel brothe
And hurled upon them a rain of bricks and stones That killed the king’s brother and his army.
Knew the intention of the king’s dreadful, cruel brothe
“Those numerous bhikṣus who believed in reality And drove the kṣatriya king to actio
Experienced the sufferings of hell For countless billons of rebirths.
“The goddess who influenced the king And protected the dharmabhāṇaka
Saw buddhas as numerous as sand grains in ten million Ganges, Made offerings to them, and engaged in practice.
“The multitudinous six quintillion men, Who with the king had heard the Dharm
And developed the aspiration to enlightenment, Became buddhas in numerous different realms.
“Their lifespans were many millions of eons. They had inconceivable, unequaled wisdom
They all taught this excellent samādhi, And then those supreme humans passed into nirvāṇa.
“Having heard this unsurpassable teaching On the accumulation of correct conduct, purity, qualities, and wisdom
You must practice intently, without distraction, And quickly attain the wisdom of buddhahood.
“Look upon us us, you tathāgatas in the ten directions, Who have peaceful minds and compassionate, loving eyes
You are the refuge and protection for all beings. Send down your rain of Dharma upon the world.
“Do not think that those two young men, Those perfect sons, were anyone else
Dīpaṃkara was at that time one of them, And I was the second dharmabhāṇaka. {a
“At that time Maitreya was the king Who listened favorably to the Dharma
And you, young man, at that time, Were the wise goddess who wished to help. {b
Was the king’s brother
Who said, ‘Kill those two dharmabhāṇakas.’ ” {c
“At that time, Devadatt
Influenced by the acquisitive bhikṣu
Those who were angry at the dharmabhāṇaka
Took rebirth sixty times in the Avīci hell.
“See how the life of the king’s cruel brother came to an end Because he listened to what bad associates said
And hurled upon them a rain of bricks and stonesThat killed the king’s brother and his army.
Conclusion of the twenty-first chapter, “The Past.
Influenced by the acquisitive bhikṣus Who said, ‘Kill those two dharmabhāṇakas.’ ” {
Then the Bhagavān said to the youth Candraprabha
“Therefore, young man, bodhisattva mahāsattvas who wish for this samādhi
and wish to attain quickly the highest, complete enlightenment of perfect buddhahood, should have no attachment to their life or body
Why is that
Because, young man, beings accomplish bad actions due to attachment to their lives and bodies
“Young man, bodhisattva mahāsattvas who have no attachment to their life and bod
will not even find it difficult to attain the highest, complete enlightenment of perfect buddhahood, not to mention this samādhi
Therefore, young man, have no attachment to your life and body
That is how you should practice.
It was said concerning this
“Foolish beings always unceasingly Have strong attachment to the putrid body
Grasping at life, and for the sake of happiness, The unwise always commit bad actions. {i
Those who do not know attachment To body and life, which have no essence
Will defeat the armies of Māra And realize enlightenment at the foot of the Bodhi tree. {ii
The body that is empty and selfless
And life, which is like a dream or a fleeting dewdrop
Those who have attachment to these two things
Those people will go to hell when they die. {iii
Conclusion of the twenty-second chapter, “The Teaching on the Body.
and wish to attain quickly the highest, complete enlightenment of perfect buddhahood, should not know the Tathāgata to be the rūpakāya
It is because the Buddha Bhagavān manifests because of the dharmakāya and does not manifest because of the rūpakāya
“Young man, bodhisattva mahāsattvas whose wish is to aspire to the body of the tathāgata
who wish to know the body of the tathāgata, should obtain this samādh
understand it, preserve it, recite it to others, promote it
proclaim it, chant it, meditate on it with dedication to the practice of meditation, and make it widely known to others
“Young man, the body of the tathāgata is taught to be one meaning, with the understanding that it arises from a hundred merits
It arises from the Dharma. It is without attributes. It is devoid of all attributes
It is profound. It is immeasurable. It is an immeasurable phenomenon. It has the nature of the absence of attributes
It is free of all attributes. It is unwavering. It has no location. It completely has the nature of space
It is invisible. It transcends the scope of the eye’s vision. That should be known as the dharmakāya
“It is inconceivable. It is beyond the level of thought
It is unaffected by bliss or suffering. It transcends all conceptual elaboration
It has no location, because it transcends the scope of the words of those who aspire to the wisdom of buddhahood
It is the quintessence because it transcends desire. It is indivisible because it transcends anger
It is stable because it transcends the scope of ignorance. It is taught through the teaching of emptiness. It is unborn because it transcends birth
Thereupon, the Bhagavān spoke these verses
“Young man, it arises from training in the great, higher cognitions, and it is known as the tathāgatakāya.
It is groundless, and cannot be comprehended. There is no end to its description
There is ultimate truth through correct speech. “It is calmness, the absence of anguish
It is ‘nirvāṇa’ because of a word. It is ‘peace’ because of speaking. There is equality in terms of conventional appellations. There are appellations in terms of ultimate truth
It is ‘permanent’ in terms of words, and terminology is empty. It is undifferentiated because it is nirvāṇ
“Someone who wishes to know This body of the Lord of the Worl
Should meditate on this samādhi, And then they will know the Buddha’s body.
Thereupon, the Bhagavān spoke these verses
“A buddha’s body is born from merit. It is pure and it is brilliant
It is the same as space; There is no difference between them.
“The characteristics of a buddha Are the same as those of enlightenment
The characteristics of the body Are the same as those characteristics.
“The body has enlightenment’s characteristics And a buddha realm has the same
The strengths, liberations, and dhyānas Are all also a single characteristic.
“That is the nature of the emergence Of the buddhas, of the lords of worlds
There is no being who with physical eyes Is able to see their bodies.
“There are many who declare, ‘I have seen the guide of the world
He is the color of gold and his body Illuminates the entire world.’
Is a manifestation through the power Of the blessing of the buddhas.
“This body that is seen, Beautified by characteristics
“The Buddha’s body is displayed As having a height and a width
But that body cannot be measured, And therefore it is inconceivable.
“If the Buddha’s body could be measured And found to be of a certain size
Then the Teacher would be the same As a deva or a human.
“That characteristic is the ripening Of a mind in meditation
There will be pure, radiant names-and-form That have that characteristic.
It is in that way that the Lord of the World Has practiced for millions of eons.
“There is no being whatsoever Who has meditated on this samādhi of peac
“I have developed this samādhi Through a multitude of good qualities
Because of the vastness of that samādhi My body cannot be seen.
“As is someone’s mind, So are their names-and-form
The mind that has no nature of its own Has names-and-form with that characteristic.
“Those who have a gross perception Of names-and-form
Their inharmonious perception Gives rise to a mind that is gross.
Their inharmonious perception Gives rise to a mind that is gross.
“Those who have a subtle perception Within their names-and-for
Will have a mind that is radiant And without attachment to names-and-form.
“I remember that in my previous lives During seven countless eons
The three bad perceptions Never arose in me at any time.
“My mind has been undefiled For countless millions of eons
I bring benefit to beings And my body is not visible.
“The one whose mind Is liberated from existent
Will never again be Connected with existents.
“My consciousness is liberated Completely from all things
I know the nature of the mind, So that henceforth wisdom will arise.
“My emanations proceed To thousands of millions of realms
There they benefit beings Though there is no body to be found.
“Without characteristics, without attributes, It is the same as space
My body is indescribable. It is taught to be difficult to understand.
“The dharmakāya, the great hero, Is a body born from the Dharma
The Jina cannot be made known By means of the rūpakāya.
Who has felt joy on hearing These words that have been taught.
“Māra will find no opportunity To cause harm to the on
“Those who have heard the profound Dharma And have not been frightened by it
Will not even for the sake of their life Forsake the enlightenment of buddhahood.
“They will know the truth that is taught In thousands of millions of sūtras
They will be a light for the world Wherever it is that they will go.
“Young man, the body of the Tathāgata is not easily known through attributes or actions
It is blue, or is colored blue, or is like blue, or shines with blue light
or it is yellow, or is colored yellow, or is like yellow, or shines with yellow light
or it is red, or is colored red, or is like red, or shines with red light
or it is red, or is colored red, or is like red, or shines with red light
or it is white, or is colored white, or is like white, or shines with white light
or it is madder, or is colored madder, or is like madder, or shines with madder light
or it is crystal, or is crystal-colored, or is like crystal, or shines with crystal light
or it is fire, or is fire-colored, or is like fire, or shines with fire light
or it is distilled ghee, or is ghee-colored, or is like ghee, or shines with ghee-colored light
or it is gold, or is gold-colored, or is like gold, or shines with golden light
or it is beryl, or is beryl-colored, or is like beryl, or shines with beryl light
or it is lightning, or is lightning-colored, or is like lightning, or shines with lightning’s light
or it is Brahmā, or is Brahmā-colored, or is like Brahmā, or shines with Brahmā’s light
or it is a deva, or is deva-colored, or is like a deva, or shines with a deva’s light
It is not easy to know it
It cannot be conceived of through any attribute, and so it is taught to be inconceivable
“Young man, in that way the body of the tathāgata is pure. It cannot be conceived of through attributes, and so it is taught to be inconceivable
The Bhagavān then spoke these verses
It cannot be conceived of through external appearances
It is immeasurable. The beings and devas of this world cannot easily grasp its extent even through the perfect rūpakāya.
“All the particles in the world And all that can be conceived of as dust
And all the water that is in springs, Lakes, ponds, and the ocean—
“One may ask how many particles there are, But one can never find the end
Even if, with the tip of a hair, one could measure out How much water there is in an ocean, {–
“Even that could not be taught As an analogy for the Lord of the World
There are countless drops of water And it is the same for atoms,
There are countless drops of water And it is the same for atoms,
“But I see that even a single sentient being Has far more numerou
Aspirations and motivations That are developed at numerous times.
“Yet even the aspirations of all being
Are not adequate as an analog
“One cannot through attributes and actions Know the appearance of these kind
For those qualities of the body That I have indicated.
Of qualities of a buddha, And that is my distinctive characteristic.
“The buddhas are devoid of attributes. They are the manifestation of the dharmakāya
They are profound and immeasurable, And therefore the buddhas are inconceivable.
“The inconceivable buddha body Of a buddha is also inconceivable
Those bodies are inconceivable. They are the manifestation of the dharmakāya.
“The mind is incapable of conceiving The bodies of the buddhas
One cannot, therefore, obtain The measure of such a body.
“Those immeasurable qualities I have practiced for ten million eons
Therefore have I accomplished A body that is inconceivable and radiant, too.
“There is no being that can grasp it Or that can obtain its measure
In that way the body of a buddha Is inconceivable and immeasurable.
“Because the qualities are immeasurable There is no measure that can be conceived for them
Because the qualities are not conceived The buddha also is inconceivable.
“The measured is taught to be a conception; The measureless is nonconceptual
That which is not conceived is without conception; Therefore the buddha is inconceivable.
Likewise a buddha’s body Is just the same as space.
“Just as space is limitless And no one is able to measure it
“Those who thus know the body Of the buddhas are the progeny of the jinas
They will also become buddhas, Inconceivable lords of worlds.”
Conclusion of the twenty-third chapter, “The Teaching on the Tathāgata’s Body.
Then the Bhagavān said to the youth Candraprabha
Then the Bhagavān said to the youth Candraprabha
What are these four? They are the discernment of meaning, the discernment of phenomena
the discernment of definitions, and the discernment of eloquence. I shall manifest these four!
On having this thought, young man, bodhisattva mahāsattvas should obtain this samādhi
understand it, preserve it, recite it to others, promote it, proclaim it
chant it, meditate on it with unadulterated meditation, and make it widely known to others
“Young man, what is the discernment of phenomena
“Young man, however many words there can be for forms, the tathāgata has that many appellations for them
It is the same for sensation, identification, mentation; and, young man, for consciousnesses
It is the same for sensation, identification, mentation, and, young man, for consciousnesses: there are infinite, endless
“Young man, there are countless faults in those composite phenomena
there are also countless benefits in nirvāṇa, and the tathāgata, too, has that many countless appellations
Young man, as numerous as are the names for nirvāṇa, the tathāgata has that many appellations
Thus, young man, there are countless names of nirvāṇa, and the tathāgata, too, has that many appellations
“Young man, the tathāgata has spoken of four kinds of appellations that are inconceivably numerous because it is not easy to state that there is an end to them
the inconceivably numerous appellations for kleśas, and the inconceivably numerous appellations for purification
Young man, those are the tathāgata’s four kinds of inconceivably numerous appellations
Young man, those four, the tathāgata’s inconceivably numerous appellations
are taught to be inconceivably numerous as it is not easy to state that there is an end to them. To understan
what those four are, they should be taught in detail
What are these four? They are the inconceivably numerous appellations in regard to the composite
the inconceivably numerous appellations for sounds
“Young man, there are the four ways of the bodhisattvas. What are the four ways
They are the inconceivably numerous ways of the composite, the inconceivably numerous ways of teaching the composite
the inconceivably numerous ways of the kleśas, and the inconceivably numerous ways of purification. Those are the four
“Young man, the bodhisattvas have four kinds of reasoning. What are the four kinds of reasoning
They are the inconceivably numerous kinds of reasoning concerning the composite, the inconceivably numerous kinds of reasoning concerning teaching the composite
the inconceivably numerous kinds of reasoning concerning the kleśas, and the inconceivably numerous kinds of reasoning concerning purification. Those are the four
“Young man, the bodhisattvas have four kinds of doorways. What are the four kinds of reasoning
They are the inconceivably numerous doorways concerning the composite, the inconceivably numerous doorways concerning teaching the composite
the inconceivably numerous doorways concerning the kleśas
and the inconceivably numerous doorways concerning purification. Those are the four
“Young man, the bodhisattvas have four kinds of elucidation. What are the four kinds of elucidation
They are the inconceivably numerous elucidations concerning the composite
the inconceivably numerous elucidations concerning teaching the composite
the inconceivably numerous elucidations concerning the kleśas
and the inconceivably numerous elucidations concerning purification. Those are the four
“Young man, the bodhisattvas have four kinds of speaking. What are the four kinds of speaking
They are the inconceivably numerous kinds of speaking concerning the composite, the inconceivably numerous kinds of speaking concerning teaching the composite
the inconceivably numerous kinds of speaking concerning the kleśas, and the inconceivably numerous kinds of speaking concerning purification. Those are the four
“Young man, the bodhisattvas have four kinds of words. What are the four kinds of words
They are the inconceivably numerous words concerning the composite, the inconceivably numerous words concerning teaching the composite
the inconceivably numerous words concerning the kleśas, and the inconceivably numerous words concerning purification. Those are the four
“Young man, the bodhisattvas have four kinds of recitation. What are the four kinds of recitation
They are the inconceivably numerous recitations concerning the composite, the inconceivably numerous recitations concerning teaching the composite
the inconceivably numerous recitations concerning the kleśas, and the inconceivably numerous recitations concerning purification. Those are the four
“Young man, the bodhisattvas have four kinds of pertinent speech. What are the four kinds of pertinent speech
They are the inconceivably numerous kinds of pertinent speech concerning the composite
the inconceivably numerous kinds of pertinent speech concerning teaching the composite
the inconceivably numerous kinds of pertinent speech concerning the kleśas
and the inconceivably numerous kinds of pertinent speech concerning purification. Those are the four
“Young man, the bodhisattvas have four kinds of comprehension of the devas. What are the four kinds of comprehension of the devas
They are the inconceivably numerous kinds of comprehension of the devas concerning the composite, the inconceivably numerous kinds of comprehension of the devas concerning teaching the composite
the inconceivably numerous kinds of comprehension of the devas concerning the kleśas
and the inconceivably numerous kinds of comprehension of the devas concerning purification. Those are the four
“Young man, the bodhisattvas have four kinds of comprehension of humans. What are the four kinds of comprehension of humans
They are the inconceivably numerous kinds of comprehension of humans concerning the composite, the inconceivably numerous kinds of comprehension of humans concerning teaching the composite
the inconceivably numerous kinds of comprehension of humans concerning the kleśas, and the inconceivably numerous kinds of comprehension of humans concerning purification. Those are the four
“Young man, the bodhisattvas have four kinds of comprehension of names. What are the four kinds of comprehension of names
They are the inconceivably numerous kinds of comprehension of names concerning the composite, the inconceivably numerous kinds of comprehension of names concerning teaching the composite
the inconceivably numerous kinds of comprehension of names concerning the kleśas
and the inconceivably numerous kinds of comprehension of names concerning purification. Those are the four
“Young man, the bodhisattvas have four kinds of engagement. What are the four kinds of engagement
They are the inconceivably numerous kinds of engagement concerning the composite
the inconceivably numerous kinds of engagement concerning teaching the composite
the inconceivably numerous kinds of engagement concerning the kleśas
and the inconceivably numerous kinds of engagement concerning purification. Those are the four
“Young man, the bodhisattvas have four kinds of ascension. What are the four kinds of ascension
They are the inconceivably numerous kinds of ascension concerning the composite
the inconceivably numerous kinds of ascension concerning teaching the composite
the inconceivably numerous kinds of ascension concerning the kleśas
and the inconceivably numerous kinds of ascension concerning purification. Those are the four
“Young man, the bodhisattvas have four kinds of vajra words. What are the four kinds of vajra words
They are the inconceivably numerous vajra words concerning the composite
the inconceivably numerous vajra words concerning teaching the composite
the inconceivably numerous vajra words concerning the kleśas
and the inconceivably numerous vajra words concerning purification. Those are the four
“Young man, the bodhisattvas have four kinds of mantra words. What are the four kinds of mantra words
They are the inconceivably numerous mantra words concerning the composite
the inconceivably numerous mantra words concerning teaching the composite
the inconceivably numerous mantra words concerning the kleśas
and the inconceivably numerous mantra words concerning purification. Those are the four
“Young man, the bodhisattvas have four kinds of attainment. What are the four kinds of attainment
They are the inconceivably numerous attainments concerning the composite, the inconceivably numerous attainments concerning teaching the composite
the inconceivably numerous attainments concerning the kleśas, and the inconceivably numerous attainments concerning purification. Those are the four
“Young man, the bodhisattvas have four kinds of sūtra words. What are the four kinds of sūtra words
They are the inconceivably numerous sūtra words concerning the composite
the inconceivably numerous sūtra words concerning teaching the composite
the inconceivably numerous sūtra words concerning the kleśas
and the inconceivably numerous sūtra words concerning purification. Those are the four
“Young man, the bodhisattvas have four kinds of designations. What are the four kinds of designations
They are the inconceivably numerous designations concerning the composite
the inconceivably numerous designations concerning teaching the composite
the inconceivably numerous designations concerning the kleśas
and the inconceivably numerous designations concerning purification. Those are the four
“Young man, the bodhisattvas have four kinds of words concerning illumination. What are the four kinds of words concerning illumination
They are the inconceivably numerous words concerning illumination in regard to the composite, the inconceivably numerous words concerning illumination in regard to teaching the composite
the inconceivably numerous words concerning illumination in regard to the kleśas
and the inconceivably numerous words concerning illumination in regard to purification. Those are the four
“Young man, the bodhisattvas have four kinds of words concerning clarification. What are the four kinds of words concerning clarification
They are the inconceivably numerous words concerning clarification in regard to the composite, the inconceivably numerous words concerning clarification in regard to teaching the composite
the inconceivably numerous words concerning clarification in regard to the kleśas, and the inconceivably numerous words of clarification in regard to purification. Those are the four
“Young man, the bodhisattvas have four kinds of words concerning conduct. What are the four kinds of words concerning conduct
They are the inconceivably numerous words of conduct concerning the composite
the inconceivably numerous words of conduct concerning teaching the composite
the inconceivably numerous words of conduct concerning the kleśas
and the inconceivably numerous words of conduct concerning purification. Those are the four
“Young man, the bodhisattvas have four kinds of words concerning behavior. What are the four kinds of words concerning behavior
They are the inconceivably numerous kinds of words concerning behavior in regard to the composite
the inconceivably numerous kinds of words concerning behavior in regard to teaching the composite
the inconceivably numerous kinds of words concerning behavior in regard to the kleśas
and the inconceivably numerous kinds of words concerning behavior in regard to purification. Those are the four
“Young man, the bodhisattvas have four kinds of words of inconceivability. What are the four kinds of words of inconceivability
They are the inconceivably numerous words of inconceivability concerning the composite, the inconceivably numerous words of inconceivability concerning teaching the composite
the inconceivably numerous words of inconceivability concerning the kleśas, and the inconceivably numerous words of inconceivability concerning purification. Those are the four
“Young man, the bodhisattvas have four kinds of words of limitlessness. What are the four kinds of words of limitlessness
They are the inconceivably numerous words of limitlessness concerning the composite
the inconceivably numerous words of limitlessness concerning teaching the composite
the inconceivably numerous words of limitlessness concerning the kleśas
and the inconceivably numerous words of limitlessness concerning purification. Those are the four
“Young man, the bodhisattvas have four kinds of words of nonmovement. What are the four kinds of words of nonmovement
They are the inconceivably numerous words of nonmovement concerning the composite
the inconceivably numerous words of nonmovement concerning teaching the composite, the inconceivably numerous words of nonmovement concerning the kleśas
and the inconceivably numerous words of nonmovement concerning purification. Those are the four
the inconceivably numerous words of nonmovement concerning the kleśas, and the inconceivably numerous words of nonmovement concerning purification. Those are the four
“Young man, the bodhisattvas have four kinds of words of boundlessness. What are the four kinds of words of boundlessness
They are the inconceivably numerous words of boundlessness concerning the composite, the inconceivably numerous words of boundlessness concerning teaching the composite
the inconceivably numerous words of boundlessness concerning the kleśas, and the inconceivably numerous words of boundlessness concerning purification. Those are the four
“Young man, the bodhisattvas have four kinds of words of incomparability. What are the four kinds of words of incomparability
They are the inconceivably numerous words of incomparability concerning the composite
the inconceivably numerous words of incomparability concerning teaching the composite, the inconceivably numerous words of incomparability concerning the kleśas
and the inconceivably numerous words of incomparability concerning purification. Those are the four
“Young man, the bodhisattvas have four kinds of words of innumerability. What are the four kinds of words of innumerability
They are the inconceivably numerous words of innumerability concerning the composite
the inconceivably numerous words of innumerability concerning teaching the composite
the inconceivably numerous words of innumerability concerning the kleśas
and the inconceivably numerous words of innumerability concerning purification. Those are the four
“Young man, the bodhisattvas have four kinds of words of unquantifiability. What are the four kinds of words of unquantifiability
They are the inconceivably numerous words of unquantifiability concerning the composite
the inconceivably numerous words of unquantifiability concerning teaching the composite
the inconceivably numerous words of unquantifiability concerning the kleśas
and the inconceivably numerous words of unquantifiability concerning purification. Those are the four
“Young man, the bodhisattvas have four kinds of words of immeasurability. What are the four kinds of words of immeasurability
They are the inconceivably numerous words of immeasurability concerning the composite, the inconceivably numerous words of immeasurability concerning teaching the composite
the inconceivably numerous words of immeasurability concerning the kleśas, and the inconceivably numerous words of immeasurability concerning purification. Those are the four
the inconceivably numerous words of immeasurability concerning the kleśas, and the inconceivably numerous words of immeasurability concerning purification. Those are the four
“Young man, the bodhisattvas have four kinds of words of wisdom. What are the four kinds of words of wisdom
They are the inconceivably numerous words of wisdom concerning the composite, the inconceivably numerous words of wisdom concerning teaching the composite
the inconceivably numerous words of wisdom concerning the kleśas, and the inconceivably numerous words of wisdom concerning purification. Those are the four
“Young man, the bodhisattvas have four kinds of accumulation of wisdom. What are the four kinds of accumulation of wisdom
They are the inconceivably numerous accumulations of wisdom concerning the composite, the inconceivably numerous accumulations of wisdom concerning teaching the composite
the inconceivably numerous accumulations of wisdom concerning the kleśas
and the inconceivably numerous accumulations of wisdom concerning purification. Those are the four
“Young man, the bodhisattvas have four kinds of families of wisdom. What are the four kinds of families of wisdom
the inconceivably numerous families of wisdom concerning teaching the composite
the inconceivably numerous families of wisdom concerning the kleśas
and the inconceivably numerous families of wisdom concerning purification. Those are the four
“Young man, the bodhisattvas have four kinds of accumulation of eloquence. What are the four kinds of accumulation of eloquence
They are the inconceivably numerous accumulations of eloquence concerning the composite
the inconceivably numerous accumulations of eloquence concerning teaching the composite
the inconceivably numerous accumulations of eloquence concerning the kleśas
and the inconceivably numerous accumulations of eloquence concerning purification. Those are the four
They are the inconceivably numerous families of wisdom concerning the composite
“Young man, the bodhisattvas have four kinds of sūtras. What are the four kinds of sūtras
They are the inconceivably numerous sūtras concerning the composite
the inconceivably numerous sūtras concerning teaching the composite
the inconceivably numerous sūtras concerning the kleśas, and the inconceivably numerous sūtras concerning purification. Those are the four
“Young man, the bodhisattvas have four kinds of accumulations of sūtras. What are the four kinds of accumulations of sūtras
They are the inconceivably numerous accumulations of sūtras concerning the composite
the inconceivably numerous accumulations of sūtras concerning teaching the composite
the inconceivably numerous accumulations of sūtras concerning the kleśas
and the inconceivably numerous accumulations of sūtras concerning purification. Those are the four
“Young man, the bodhisattvas have four kinds of great learning. What are the four kinds of great learning
They are the inconceivably numerous kinds of great learning concerning the composite
the inconceivably numerous kinds of great learning concerning teaching the composite
the inconceivably numerous kinds of great learning concerning the kleśas
and the inconceivably numerous kinds of great learning concerning purification. Those are the four
“Young man, the bodhisattvas have four kinds of wealth. What are the four kinds of wealth
They are the inconceivably numerous kinds of wealth concerning the composite, the inconceivably numerous kinds of wealth concerning teaching the composite
the inconceivably numerous kinds of wealth concerning the kleśas, and the inconceivably numerous kinds of wealth concerning purification. Those are the four
“Young man, the bodhisattvas have four kinds of training. What are the four kinds of training
They are the inconceivably numerous kinds of training concerning the composite
the inconceivably numerous kinds of training concerning teaching the composite
the inconceivably numerous kinds of training concerning the kleśas
and the inconceivably numerous kinds of training concerning purification. Those are the four
“Young man, the bodhisattvas have four kinds of fields of conduct. What are the four kinds of fields of conduct
They are the inconceivably numerous fields of conduct concerning the composite
the inconceivably numerous fields of conduct concerning teaching the composite
the inconceivably numerous fields of conduct concerning the kleśas
and the inconceivably numerous fields of conduct concerning purification. Those are the four
“Young man, the bodhisattvas have four kinds of action. What are the four kinds of action
They are the inconceivably numerous kinds of action concerning the composite
the inconceivably numerous kinds of action concerning teaching the composite
the inconceivably numerous kinds of action concerning teaching the composite
the inconceivably numerous kinds of action concerning the kleśas
and the inconceivably numerous kinds of action concerning purification. Those are the four
“Young man, the bodhisattvas have four kinds of eloquence. What are the four kinds of eloquence
They are the inconceivably numerous kinds of eloquence concerning the composite
the inconceivably numerous kinds of eloquence concerning teaching the composite
the inconceivably numerous kinds of eloquence concerning the kleśas
and the inconceivably numerous kinds of eloquence concerning purification. Those are the four
“Young man, the bodhisattvas have four kinds of meditation on the path. What are the four kinds of meditation on the path
They are the inconceivably numerous kinds of meditation on the path concerning the composite, the inconceivably numerous kinds of meditation on the path concerning teaching the composite
the inconceivably numerous kinds of meditation on the path concerning the kleśas, and the inconceivably numerous kinds of meditation on the path concerning purification. Those are the four
“Young man, the bodhisattvas have four kinds of knowledge of the kleśas. What are the four kinds of knowledge of the kleśas
They are the inconceivably numerous kinds of knowledge of the kleśas concerning the composite
the inconceivably numerous kinds of knowledge of the kleśas concerning teaching the composite
the inconceivably numerous kinds of knowledge of the kleśas concerning the kleśas
and the inconceivably numerous kinds of knowledge of the kleśas concerning purification. Those are the four
“Young man, the bodhisattvas have four kinds of knowledge of the result. What are the four kinds of knowledge of the result
They are the inconceivably numerous kinds of knowledge of the result concerning the composite
the inconceivably numerous kinds of knowledge of the result concerning teaching the composite
the inconceivably numerous kinds of knowledge of the result concerning the kleśas
and the inconceivably numerous kinds of knowledge of the result concerning purification. Those are the four
“Young man, the bodhisattvas have four kinds of knowledge of ignorance. What are the four kinds of knowledge of ignorance
They are the inconceivably numerous kinds of knowledge of ignorance concerning the composite
the inconceivably numerous kinds of knowledge of ignorance concerning teaching the composite
the inconceivably numerous kinds of knowledge of ignorance concerning the kleśas
and the inconceivably numerous kinds of knowledge of ignorance concerning purification. Those are the four
They are the inconceivably numerous kinds of action concerning the composite
“Young man, the bodhisattvas have four kinds of action. What are the four kinds of action
They are the inconceivably numerous kinds of knowledge of ignorance concerning the composite, the inconceivably numerous kinds of knowledge of ignorance concerning teaching the composite
the inconceivably numerous kinds of knowledge of ignorance concerning the kleśas
and the inconceivably numerous kinds of knowledge of ignorance concerning purification. Those are the four
“Young man, the bodhisattvas have four kinds of knowledge of suffering. What are the four kinds of knowledge of suffering
They are the inconceivably numerous kinds of knowledge of suffering concerning the composite
the inconceivably numerous kinds of knowledge of suffering concerning teaching the composite
the inconceivably numerous kinds of knowledge of suffering concerning the kleśas
and the inconceivably numerous kinds of knowledge of suffering concerning purification. Those are the four
“Young man, the bodhisattvas have four kinds of knowledge of unhappiness. What are the four kinds of knowledge of unhappiness
They are the inconceivably numerous kinds of knowledge of unhappiness concerning the composite
the inconceivably numerous kinds of knowledge of unhappiness concerning teaching the composite
the inconceivably numerous kinds of knowledge of unhappiness concerning the kleśas
and the inconceivably numerous kinds of knowledge of unhappiness concerning purification. Those are the four
“Young man, the bodhisattvas have four kinds of knowledge of poverty. What are the four kinds of knowledge of poverty
They are the inconceivably numerous kinds of knowledge of poverty concerning the composite
the inconceivably numerous kinds of knowledge of poverty concerning teaching the composite
the inconceivably numerous kinds of knowledge of poverty concerning the kleśas
and the inconceivably numerous kinds of knowledge of poverty concerning purification. Those are the four
“Young man, the bodhisattvas have four kinds of knowledge of birth. What are the four kinds of knowledge of birth
They are the inconceivably numerous kinds of knowledge of birth concerning the composite
the inconceivably numerous kinds of knowledge of birth concerning teaching the composite
the inconceivably numerous kinds of knowledge of birth concerning the kleśas
and the inconceivably numerous kinds of knowledge of birth concerning purification. Those are the four
“Young man, the bodhisattvas have four kinds of inner knowledge. What are the four kinds of inner knowledge
They are the inconceivably numerous kinds of inner knowledge concerning the composite, the inconceivably numerous kinds of inner knowledge concerning teaching the composite
the inconceivably numerous kinds of inner knowledge concerning the kleśas, and the inconceivably numerous kinds of inner knowledge concerning purification. Those are the four
“Young man, the bodhisattvas have four kinds of external knowledge. What are the four kinds of external knowledge
They are the inconceivably numerous kinds of external knowledge concerning the composite, the inconceivably numerous kinds of external knowledge concerning teaching the composite
the inconceivably numerous kinds of external knowledge concerning the kleśas, and the inconceivably numerous kinds of external knowledge concerning purification. Those are the four
“Young man, the bodhisattvas have four kinds of knowledge of modesty. What are the four kinds of knowledge of modesty
They are the inconceivably numerous kinds of knowledge of modesty concerning the composite, the inconceivably numerous kinds of knowledge of modesty concerning teaching the composite
and the inconceivably numerous kinds of knowledge of existents concerning purification. Those are the fou
the inconceivably numerous kinds of knowledge of existents concerning the kleśas
the inconceivably numerous kinds of knowledge of existents concerning teaching the composite
They are the inconceivably numerous kinds of knowledge of existents concerning the composit
“Young man, the bodhisattvas have four kinds of knowledge of existents. What are the four kinds of knowledge of existents
and the inconceivably numerous kinds of knowledge of existence concerning purification. Those are the four
the inconceivably numerous kinds of knowledge of existence concerning the kleśas
the inconceivably numerous kinds of knowledge of existence concerning teaching the composite
They are the inconceivably numerous kinds of knowledge of existence concerning the composite
“Young man, the bodhisattvas have four kinds of knowledge of existence. What are the four kinds of knowledge of existence
and the inconceivably numerous kinds of knowledge of truth concerning purification. Those are the four
the inconceivably numerous kinds of knowledge of truth concerning the kleśas
the inconceivably numerous kinds of knowledge of truth concerning teaching the composite
They are the inconceivably numerous kinds of knowledge of truth concerning the composite
“Young man, the bodhisattvas have four kinds of knowledge of truth. What are the four kinds of knowledge of truth
and the inconceivably numerous kinds of knowledge of modesty concerning purification. Those are the four
the inconceivably numerous kinds of knowledge of modesty concerning the kleśas
the inconceivably numerous kinds of knowledge of modesty concerning teaching the composite
They are the inconceivably numerous kinds of knowledge of modesty concerning the composite
“Young man, the bodhisattvas have four kinds of knowledge of modesty. What are the four kinds of knowledge of modesty
the inconceivably numerous kinds of knowledge of existents concerning the kleśas
and the inconceivably numerous kinds of knowledge of existents concerning purification. Those are the four
“Young man, the bodhisattvas have four kinds of knowledge of the individual. What are the four kinds of knowledge of the individual
They are the inconceivably numerous kinds of knowledge of the individual concerning the composite
the inconceivably numerous kinds of knowledge of the individual concerning teaching the composite
the inconceivably numerous kinds of knowledge of the individual concerning the kleśas
and the inconceivably numerous kinds of knowledge of the individual concerning purification. Those are the four
“Young man, the bodhisattvas have four kinds of knowledge of apprehensions. What are the four kinds of knowledge of apprehensions
They are the inconceivably numerous kinds of knowledge of apprehensions concerning the composite
the inconceivably numerous kinds of knowledge of apprehensions concerning teaching the composite
the inconceivably numerous kinds of knowledge of apprehensions concerning the kleśas
The third retention is of what is known concerning the teaching of all infinite kleśas
The fourth retention is of what is known concerning the teaching of all infinite purifications
The second retention is of what is known concerning the teaching of all infinite sounds
The first retention is of what is known concerning the teaching of all infinite composites
“Young man, the bodhisattvas have four kinds of retention. What are the four kinds of retention
It is not easy to state an end to them
“Young man, those are the four inconceivably numerous kinds of knowledge of apprehensions that are taught to be inconceivably numerous
and the inconceivably numerous kinds of knowledge of apprehensions concerning purification. Those are the four
“The discernment of meaning is the meaning in the knowledge of phenomena
“So it is in these ways that there is the discernment of phenomena through knowing phenomen
Those are the four retentions. The four retentions are those
“The discernment of meaning is the meaning in the knowledge of phenomena
“The discernment of definitions is delight in the knowledge of phenomena
Thereupon the Bhagavān spoke these verses
having unimpeded speech, having unalloyed speech, not being mute, not stammering
“Young man, the discernment of eloquence is teachin
terminology, explaining, expounding, clarifying, disseminating, analyzing, differentiating, proclaiming
in relation to the knowledge of phenomena.
and speaking without loss of confidenc
“As numerous as are the knowledges of the Buddha, There are that many designations for forms
As numerous as are the designations for forms, There are that many appellations of forms.
“As numerous as are the appellations of forms, There are that many names for conduct
As numerous as are the names for conduct, The are that many names of buddhas.
“As numerous as are the names of buddhas, There are that many names of beings
I know whatever number of names Even one single being has.
“The names for conduct, names of buddhas, And names of beings are equa
To the infinity of names and appellations That I have previously taught.
“As numerous as are the faults in the composite, There are that many qualities in nirvāṇa
I have taught as many analogies As there are qualities of the buddhas.
“As numerous as are the motivations That I have taught beings to have
There are that many light rays From a single hair of a Lord of the World.
“As numerous as are the names And aspirations of all beings
A lord of humans has even more Qualities of the aspects of his speech.
“The names of all beings that have been taught To be those of one bein
Are the names of one being That have been taught to be those of all beings.
“The Buddha has taught This engagement with discernment
Infinite names have been taught For the sake of the bodhisattvas.
“Those who wish to teach in some way The endless millions of sūtra
Should recite this sūtra And teach it with full confidence.
The endless millions of sūtras Should recite this sūtraAnd teach it with full confidence.
“They should teach in the middle of an assembly Millions of sūtras without impediment
They should teach the Dharma in the way That space is without any limit.
“In that way the bodhisattvas, The pure beings, the protectors
Having taken up this sūtra Will become endowed with wisdom.
“Through the way this path is taught By those who have faith
That is how wisdom grows, Like a tree on a snow mountain.”
Conclusion of the twenty-fourth chapter, “The Inconceivable Tathāgata.
“Young man, how do bodhisattva mahāsattvas who practice that discernment of phenomena
who view phenomena as phenomena, attain the highest, complete enlightenment
“Young man, bodhisattva mahāsattvas who practice that discernment of phenomena, who view phenomena as phenomena, do not perceive enlightenment as other than form
They do not approach enlightenment as other than form
They do not seek enlightenment as other than form
They do not attain enlightenment as other than form
They do not inspire beings to an enlightenment that is other than form
They do not see a tathāgata as other than form. They see a tathāgata in this way: ‘The Tathāgata is the fearlessness nature of form.
They do not see the tathāgata as other than form, as other than the nature of form
They do not see the nature of form as other than the tathāgata
The nature of that which is called form and that of the tathāgata are nondual
The bodhisattva mahāsattvas who see in that way are engaging in the discernment of phenomena
“In that same way they do not perceive enlightenment as other than sensation
“In that same way they do not perceive enlightenment as other than sensation
other than identification, other than mentation, nor other than consciousness
They do not approach enlightenment as being other than consciousness
They do not seek enlightenment as other than consciousness
They do not attain enlightenment as other than consciousness
They do not inspire beings to an enlightenment that is other than consciousness
They do not see a tathāgata as other than consciousness
They see a tathāgata in this way: ‘The Tathāgata is the fearlessness that is the nature of consciousness.
They do not see the tathāgata as other than consciousness, as other than the nature of consciousness
They do not see the nature of consciousness as other than the tathāgata
The nature of that which is called consciousness and that of the tathāgata are nondual
The bodhisattva mahāsattvas who see in that way are engaging in the discernment of phenomena.
Thereupon the Bhagavān spoke these verses
“Enlightenment is taught through form; Form is taught through enlightenment
Through these dissimilar words The highest of Dharma is taught.
“The highest form is taught through words; Its nature is profound
Form and enlightenment are the same: There is no difference that can be found.
“Nirvāṇa is profound And it is taught through words
Yet nirvāṇa is not to be found And words are not to be found.
“Both words and nirvāṇa, Neither of them are to be found
Thus nirvāṇa has been taught In terms of empty phenomena.
“Nirvāṇa is not to be found In saying ‘passed into nirvāṇa.
There is no development of phenomena. It is afterward just as it was before.
“All phenomena are by nature Exactly the same as nirvāṇa
That is known by those dedicated to renunciation, By those engaged in the Buddha’s teachings.
That is known by those dedicated to renunciation, By those engaged in the Buddha’s teachings.
Exactly the same as nirvāṇa
“Some say, ‘I have seen the Guide, For I saw the Buddha’s body.
But it is not possible for anyone To see me because of my rūpakāya.
“The known nature of form, That is the characteristic of form
When the nature of form is known, Then my body is revealed.
“In that way I know the characteristics Of phenomena, of the five skandhas
Knowing that nature of phenomena, I remain in the dharmakāya.
“I teach the Dharma to beings Without departing from the dharmakāya
But the qualities of the buddhas Cannot be expressed in words.
“Those who do not know this way Listen to the Buddha’s word
And then merely say with words, ‘I have seen the Guide of humans.’
“Whoever casts off all conceptual identification Brings to an end the identification of existence
Whoever has a conceptual identification of words Will never be able to see the Teacher.
“Whoever knows emptiness As the characteristic of form Will not say that emptiness Is other than the nature of form. Whoever knows form, Knows emptiness.
They will stand up and state, ‘That is not the teaching of the Buddha!’
“Those who are lazy and lacking in diligence, Who do not maintain the aspect of conduc
They maintain the conception of a result And lose all their wealth of mendicancy.
“They are deceived by acquisitions through reputation And wander far from my teaching
They conceive of the unreal as being real And the real as being unreal.
“Those who do not know this way, Those who conceptualize, are lost
Whoever knows emptiness, Knows nirvāṇa.
“Whoever knows form, Knows emptines
Will overcome and defeat Tens of millions of māras.
“Whoever knows emptiness As the characteristic of for
Whoever knows form, Knows emptiness.
Will not say that emptiness Is other than the nature of form
They will stand up and state, ‘That is not the teaching of the Buddha!’
“Some of them will declare, ‘We are enlightened!
But they will be uncontrolled, untrained, And disrespectful to each other.
And have no stability in the Dharma
“They will delight in word
They will stand up and state, ‘That is not the Buddha’s teaching.’
“When those with bad conduct and wicked behavior Hear correct conduct being praised
They will say, one to another, ‘They are the same as us.’
“When they who have very poor conduct See those who are maintaining correct conduc
The offerings that are superior Will not be included in their practices.
“They will make offerings to me With bherī drums, conches, and mṛdaṅga drums
At that time, those bhikṣus Will not even have those trainings.
“There are the trainings that I have taught To the laymen who wear white clothing
“Laymen will not be as attracted To their own wive
As the mendicants will be Attracted to the wives of others.
And they will think of those people’s wives And daughters as their own wives.
“They will treat with kindness Those who give them food and drink
They will take up residence with them And they will corrupt their sons and daughters.
“The laypeople will come to think of them As their teachers
They will enter into their homes And they will corrupt those families.
“Their desire will be like the flames of a fire. They will give teachings to laypeople
They will be within the realm of Māra And they will do the work of laypeople.
“They will depend upon their perception. They will dwell in craving and desire
They will build temples and stūpas. Their interest will be in the women of families.
“Based upon gains and honors They will desire the intellect’s accomplishments
They will be overpowered by arrogance and carelessness. Their goal will be gain and honors.
“They will be motivated to have a following. They will delight in acquisition
They will have that kind of aspiration, Desiring what is gained through reputation.
‘That is not the Buddha’s teaching.’
“They will be devoid of shame. They will have lost the wealth of the mendicant
They will debate with words that are false And reject the enlightenment of buddhahood.
“They who have wicked minds Will reject the Buddha’s teaching
They will cast aside the Dharma And they will dwell in the Avīci hell.
“Those who have that kind of conduct Will neither hear me nor see me
Those who follow the Dharma of fools Will not attain the wisdom of buddhahood.
“They will be hypocrites Who will deceive by saying
‘I know everything about that. That wisdom is within me.’
“If I were to teach them for an eon Their confusion would still be vast
They do no more than make Promises to be bodhisattvas.
“They will be young men Whose bad behavior is incessant
You should not in the future Be associated with them.
“Should you speak with them or converse, Treat them with respect
Honor them without being disheartened, In order to attain the highest enlightenment.
“You should ask their age, And if they are your senio
Show them respect And bow your head to their feet.
“Do not look at their errors, But see the essence of enlightenment
Do not feel anger toward them But always have a loving mind.
“If you see an error of theirs Do not mention that fault
Whatever karma they create The corresponding result will come to them.
“Have a smiling face that is like the moon For both the seniors and the novices
You should always speak sincerely, Gently, and without pride.
“You should help them in adopting Dharma robes and receiving alms
You should keep in your mind the thought, ‘They are all going to become buddhas.’
“If they request from you The gift of the Dharma
First you should say to them, ‘I do not have much learning.’
“You should speak in this way: ‘Brother, wise scholar, How can I say anything In front of such a great being?’
“You should speak in this way: ‘Brother, wise scholar
How can I say anythingIn front of such a great being?
 “Do not speak too hastily. Examine the one who would be the recipien
“If you see that there are many present Among your followers who have bad conduc
If you know that he is a worthy recipient Teach him even if he has not requested it.
You should not teach them austerity, But instead you should praise generosity.
“If they have few desires And maintain pure conduct
Have a loving mind And speak to them of austerity.
“If there are many with correct conduct Who have restrained bad desires
When that aspect has been attained Then you should praise correct conduct.
“First you should know your students, And if they are known to be pur
Then teach to them every one Of the virtuous qualities that there are.
“Always praise and teach Generosity, conduct, patience
Diligence, meditation, and learning, Contentment, few desires, and austerity.
“Living in solitary places, practicing meditation, And abandoning living among many peopl
Should be praised by you As the doorway to the power of retention.
“They should have perfect conduct By staying in solitary places
They should have perfect generosity Through remaining in seclusion.
“Maintaining the aspect of conduct, They should become very learned
Those who seek for this samādhi Should make offerings to the Buddha’s relics.
“Those who seek this peaceful samādh
With parasols, banners, and flags, And with incense, garlands, and ointments.
Should make offerings to the Buddh
“Without being indolent or disheartened, They should offer to the Buddha’s relic
Delightful music, United with song.
“For the highest enlightenmen
As much incense, garlands, parasols, Clothing, and powders as there are.
They should offer to the Lor
“For the sake of this peaceful samādhi, All the immeasurable
inconceivable Offerings that there can be They should make to all the buddhas.
“For the sake of this peaceful samādhi
All the immeasurable, inconceivable Offerings that there can b
They should make to all the buddhas.
“Those who seek unimpeded wisdom, Who are without attachment
Give the highest wisdom of buddhahood, Equally shared for all beings.
“I, too, having become unattached, And seeking this peaceful samādhi
Made inconceivable offerings To the buddhas of the past.
“It is difficult to attain the appearance of the buddhas. It is difficult to attain birth as a human
It is difficult to attain faith in the teachings, And to become a mendicant.
“One whose mind is dedicated to enlightenment Is one who pleases the Buddha
Do not deviate from that commitment, But remain within that practice.
“One who maintains this sūtra During the time of destructio
Should quickly gain eloquence And continue its teaching.
In possessing just one verse
There is an inconceivable accumulation of meri
Let alone obtaining the entire sūtra.
“For someone who has wished to hear it
Were diligently to make offerings To all the beings who have attained enlightenment
“For even if as many beings as there are in a kalp
And do so continuously with veneration,
“All the merit from the latter Will come not even to a sixteenth par
Of the merit from possessing Just one verse of this samādhi.
“One who hears this samādhi Will be free of uncertainty
I know these inconceivable benefits Through my wisdom of buddhahood.”
Conclusion of the twenty-fifth chapter, “Engaging in Discernment.
Then the Bhagavān said to the youth Candraprabha
“Therefore, young man, bodhisattva mahāsattvas who wish for this samādhi
and wish to attain quickly the highest, complete enlightenment of perfect buddhahood, should be skillful in methods
“Young man, in what way should bodhisattva mahāsattvas be skillful in methods
“Young man, in what way should bodhisattva mahāsattvas be skillful in methods
For that, young man, bodhisattva mahāsattvas focus their minds upon all beings
Those bodhisattva mahāsattvas rejoice in whatever roots of merit and accumulations of merit all beings have
Three times every day and three times every night they rejoice in whatever roots of merit and accumulations of merit all beings have
and the roots of merit and accumulation of merit that come from their taking omniscience as the focus of their aspiration they donate to all beings
“Young man, because those bodhisattva mahāsattva possess the accumulation of merit that comes from being skillful in methods, they will quickly attain this samādhi, an
they will quickly attain the highest, complete enlightenment of perfect buddhahood.
Thereupon the Bhagavān spoke these verses
And rejoice in the entirety of the merit accumulated By all these beings who are my family.
“Three times a day and three times a night I develop the aspiration to enlightenmen
“I rejoice in those who have pure conduct, Who will do nothing bad even to save their lives
I rejoice in whatever merit is possessed By bodhisattvas with perfect aspiration.
“I rejoice in those who have faith in the Buddha, Faith in the Dharma, and also the Saṅgha
I rejoice in those who make offerings to the Sugata Because of their desire for enlightenment.
For the highest, supreme, unsurpassable enlightenment
Doing so with great understanding, for the sake of beings, And so that the lineage of enlightenment will remain. {i
“I rejoice in those who develop the aspiratio
“I rejoice in the bodhisattvas overwhelmed by compassion Who give away their wealth, grain, and jewels
Their queens, sons, and daughters, Their vast kingdoms, and even their own flesh. {ii
Having trained in the training of skillful methods And subdued their bodies through meditation on wisdom. {iii
“I rejoice in those who give away their own bodies With joyful minds for the sake of beings
Who are always terrified of the three realms And act without attachment to the world.
“I rejoice in those who have no entanglements, Who have no envy or yearning for a home
“I rejoice in those who live in the forest, Always alone and solitary like a rhinoceros, Always with pur
Having trained in the training of skillful methods And subdued their bodies through meditation on wisdom. {iii
“I rejoice in those who are without complication And are saddened by every rebirth into existence
This samādhi will not be difficult to attain For those who do not dispute but have peaceful minds.
“I rejoice in those who see the harmfulness of crowds, Who avoid every kind of disagreement
Who live in solitude, dwelling at the foot of trees, And who are heirs of the sugatas focused upon liberation.
“I rejoice in those who live in solitude, Neither praising themselves nor criticizing others
I rejoice in those who are not careless But careful in the Buddha’s teaching.
“That carefulness is the very root Of all the qualities of the aspects of enlightenment
This samādhi is not difficult to attain For any heirs of the Buddha who are always careful.
“The teaching of the Sugata is a treasure that has been found. Attaining homelessness is a second treasure
livelihood and few activities, Without acting hypocritically for the sake of reputation.
The attainment of faith is a third treasure. This samādhi is a fourth treasure.
“On learning of emptiness, of the field of activity of the buddhas, If it is not rejected, that is a treasure that has been found
Endless eloquence is a treasure that has been found, And any dhāraṇī is a supreme treasure.
“That carefulness is the very root Of all the virtuous qualities that have been proclaimed
And of correct conduct, learning, giving, and patience. The Sugata has taught that it is a treasure that has been found.
“For those who are careful in the Buddha’s teaching, For those who have perfect aspirations
This samādhi will not be difficult to obtain. They are established in the Buddha’s teaching.”
This samādhi will not be difficult to obtain. They are established in the Buddha’s teaching.”
Conclusion of the twenty-sixth chapter, “Rejoicing.
Then the Bhagavān said to the youth Candraprabha
“Young man, as it has been said, ‘Be careful,’ you, young man, should consequently train in that way. Why is that
Because, young man, for bodhisattva mahāsattvas who are careful, the highest, complete enlightenment is not difficult to attain, let alone this samādhi
“Young man, in what way should bodhisattva mahāsattvas be careful
For that, young man, bodhisattva mahāsattvas should have perfectly pure conduct
Young man, in what way should bodhisattva mahāsattvas have perfectly pure conduct
never separating from an all-knowing mind, should practice the six perfections
For that, young man, bodhisattva mahāsattvas who have perfectly pure conduct
Listen, for I shall teach you their benefits
“Young man, there are ten benefits for bodhisattva mahāsattvas who aspire to generosity. What are the ten benefits
They are:  the kleśa of avarice is overcome;  their minds are constantly devoted to generosity
 from the ordinary wealth of the populace they obtain what is essential
 they are reborn into a wealthy family, and as soon as they are born they have a mind that aspires to generosity
 they are beloved by the fourfold assembly;  they enter the assembly without fear or lack of confidence
 verses that praise their greatness spread to the cardinal and intermediate directions
 they have soft and youthful arms and legs;  they stand on feet with level soles; an
 they are never apart from kalyāṇamitras until they are seated at the Bodhimaṇḍa
“Young man, those are the ten benefits for the bodhisattva mahāsattvas who aspire to generosity.
“Young man, those are the ten benefits for the bodhisattva mahāsattvas who aspire to generosity.
It was said: “Avarice is overcome. Their generosity increases
“They have soft arms and legs That they gain without difficulty
They obtain kalyāṇamitras, Both buddhas and śrāvakas.
Their renown spreads Through the villages and towns.
“They enter the assembly Fearlessly and confidently
They are beloved by beings, Both the laity and mendicants.
“They never have an avaricious mind; Their minds always delight in generosity
They are beloved by millions of beings. Those are the benefits of being without avarice.
“They are reborn into a family with great wealth. At birth they have minds that delight in generosity
They obtain the essentials and choose the time of passing away. Those are the benefits of being without avarice.
“Fearlessly they enter an assembly. Their renown spreads in all directions
They always have soft arms and legs. Those are the benefits of being without avarice.
“It is not difficult for them to obtain kalyāṇamitras. They also see buddhas and śrāvakas
Seeing them, they make offerings to them with faith. Those are the benefits of being without avarice.”
Conclusion of the twenty-seventh chapter, “The Benefits of Generosity.
“Young man, there are ten benefits for bodhisattva mahāsattvas from perfectly pure, correct conduct. What are the ten benefits
They are:  they devote themselves to wisdom and perfect it;  they follow the example of the buddhas
 they do not criticize the wise;  they do not waver from their vows
 they maintain their practice;  they turn away from saṃsāra;  they are led to attain nirvāṇa;  they live without faults arising
They are those who obtain the essentials And are reborn into a wealthy family.  “As soon as they are born There is generosity in their minds
 they attain samādhi; and  they will never be poor
“Young man, those are the ten benefits for the bodhisattva mahāsattvas who have perfectly pure, correct conduct
It was said concerning this: “They bring wisdom to perfection, Follow the example of the buddhas
Do not criticize those who are wise, And they are always without fear.
“They do not waver from their vows, They maintain their practice
They are led to attain nirvāṇa, And they turn away from saṃsāra.
Conclusion of the twenty-eighth chapter, “The Teaching on Correct Conduct.
And quickly attain an immaculate samādhi. Those are the benefits of pure, correct conduct.”
“There are no faults that arise in their minds; Thus, they maintain the strength of correct conduct
Seeing the many faults of saṃsāra They go toward nirvāṇa.
“The wise ones never waver from their vows. The heroic ones maintain their practice
They never make criticisms of the wise, And thus their conduct is completely pure.
“Their wisdom will be perfected, And they follow the example of the buddha
They will not be poor, And they maintain correct conduct.
“They live without faults arising, They quickly attain samādhi
“Young man, there are ten benefits for bodhisattva mahāsattvas from maintaining patience and being kind. What are these ten
They attain the lineage of samādhis, And they do not become ill
“Their prayers are fulfilled
The devas protect them. They quickly see the buddhas.
“It is difficult to approach their level. They are without idleness
On this topic, it was said
“Young man, those are the ten benefits for the bodhisattva mahāsattvas from taking up diligence.
 they are like lotuses; and  they are not like pestles
 they attain the lineage of samādhis;  they have few illnesses;  they digest their food well
 they maintain the Dharma they have received;  they obtain the Dharma they have not previously received
They are:  it is difficult to approach their level
 they attain the state of being cared for by the buddhas;  they will be cared for by the devas
“Young man, there are ten benefits for bodhisattva mahāsattvas from taking up diligence. What are the ten benefits
They will have the power of patience and bliss. Those wise ones will always have a tranquil mind. 
“They have happiness day and night. Their bodies will have pleasurable sensations
And at death they will be reborn in the realm of Brahmā. Those are the benefits of maintaining patience.
“Their bodies will have the thirty-two primary signs. They will not fall into the lower existences
They are protected by devas, nāgas, and yakṣas. Those are the benefits of maintaining kindness.
They always dwell in happiness And have inconceivable pleasure.
“The state of Brahmā and the state of Śakra Are not difficult for them to attain
And the lower existences are closed to them. Those are the benefits of patience.
“They are protected by devas, They have the thirty-two primary signs
They are not affected by poison, They do not drown in water,
“They are not burned by fire, They are not killed by weapons
“Young man, those are the ten benefits for the bodhisattva mahāsattvas from maintaining patience and being kind.
“They are not slain by fire or weapons; They are not killed by poison or drowning
They are:  they are not burned by fire;  they are not slain by weapons
 they are not affected by poison;  they do not drown in water;  the devas protect them;  they attain a body adorned by the primary signs of a great being
 all the doorways to their rebirth in lower existences are closed;  it is not difficult for them to be reborn in the paradise of Brahmā
 they are happy day and night; and  their physical sensations of comfort and pleasure are never lost
“Young man, those are the ten benefits for the bodhisattva mahāsattvas from maintaining patience and being kind.
They gradually develop Like a blue lotus in the middle of water
“In that way the bodhisattvas Develop through good qualities.
Gaining accomplishments for numerous eons, Has taught to the bodhisattva
The devas, too, make aspirations for them. They will soon attain the Buddha’s enlightenment.
“Those who engage in diligence Are in the care of the jinas
“What they have learned will never diminish, And they give many other Dharma teachings
“The Tathāgata who has engaged in diligence
The days and the nights Pass fruitfully for them
These benefits of possessing diligence.
Their confidence of speech increases immensely. Those are the benefits of engaging in diligence.
“They will quickly attain the lineage of samādhis. They will never become ill
Whatever food they eat They will comfortably digest completely.
“Day and night the good qualities Of their powerful diligence increase
Through the power of this diligence, Before long they will attain enlightenment.
“Young man, there are ten benefits for bodhisattva mahāsattvas from being devoted to meditation. What are the ten benefits
They are:  they maintain their bodhisattva conduct;  they engage in the field of that conduct;  they live free from anguish
 their sensory faculties are protected;  they experience pleasure;  they are separated from desire
 they have insatiability for meditation;  they are free from the domain of Māra
 they are established in the domain of the Buddha; and  they ripen the state of liberation
“Young man, those are the ten benefits for the bodhisattva mahāsattvas from being devoted to meditation.
On this topic, it was said: “They are never without bodhisattva conduct, As they are established in bodhisattva conduct
The yogins practice the field of that conduct, And reject that which is not the field of that conduct.
“They live without anguish. Their senses hidden and bound
They experience pleasure. Their field of conduct is practicing meditation.
They experience pleasure. Their field of conduct is practicing meditation.
“They are without desire, or the craving of desire. They abide in the bliss of meditation
“This is the particular quality of the yogins: That they delight in being alone in the forest
They are free from the domain of Māra And dwell in the Buddha’s domain.
They bring liberation to fruition. Those are the ten aspects.
“The bodhisattvas remain in bodhisattva conduct And they reject everything that is not that conduct
They reject that which is not the field of that conduct and remain in that which is. Those are the benefits of endeavoring in samādhi.
“They never experience anguish. They reach the state of higher bliss
Both their body and mind become blissful. These are the benefits of endeavoring in meditation.
“They live secretly in solitary places. They never have any distractions
Thus their bodies are in isolation And they attain happiness free of desires.
“They are unstained by desires and have no kleśas. Thus they are free from the domain of Mār
And are established in the domain of the tathāgatas. They bring their liberation to fruition.
“Young man, there are ten benefits for bodhisattva mahāsattvas from engaging in wisdom. What are these ten
They are:  they give away all their possessions without becoming proud that they are pure
 they have immaculate, correct conduct without forming an attachment to that conduct
 they maintain the power of patience without maintaining the conceptualization that there are beings
 they take up diligence in isolation from body and mind
 in meditating they meditate with a non-abiding meditation
 they are invincible to the māras;  they are unshakable to all adversaries
 they attain illumination regarding all engagement with the composite
 they engage in vast great compassion for all beings, and have no aspiration for the level of the śrāvakas or pratyekabuddhas
and  they enter into the dhyānas, samādhis, and samāpattis of the buddhas
 they enter into the dhyānas, samādhis, and samāpattis of the buddhas
“Young man, those are the ten benefits for the bodhisattva mahāsattvas from engaging in wisdom.
On this topic, it was said: “The heroic ones give away all their possession
They meditate on patience but have no conceptualization of beings. Those are the benefits of being devoted to wisdom.
“They are not proud of being pure through giving away all their possessions. They have immaculate correct conduct but have no attachment to conduct
They never have an aspiration For the wisdom of the śrāvaka or pratyekabuddha.
“They have attained great compassion Toward all beings
And have obtained the illumination of saṃsāra. Those are the qualities of wisdom.
“They are unshakable To every adversar
They are invincible to the māras. Those are the qualities of those who have wisdom.
“They are those who cultivate meditation, But without abiding and independent
They are those who engage in diligence But in isolation from body and mind.
“The wise ones meditate on patience But have expelled the conceptualization of beings
They keep their correct conduct immaculate But they form no attachment to that.
But do not become proud that they are pure
“They engage in diligence but in isolation. They meditate without being bound, without fixation
They are wise and are invincible to Māra. Those are the benefits of being devoted to wisdom.
“They are unshakable to adversaries. They have discovered the shallowness of the composite
And they have vast compassion for beings. Those are the benefits of being devoted to wisdom.
“They never give rise to an aspiration to be A pratyekabuddha or śrāvaka
And thus they are established in the qualities of a buddha. Those are the benefits of being devoted to wisdom.
“Young man, there are ten benefits for bodhisattva mahāsattvas from becoming very learned. What are the ten benefits
They are:  they do not create kleśas;  they do not develop malice
 they expose doubts;  they make views accurate;  they shun the wrong paths;  they are established on the true path
 they have reached the doorway to deathlessness;  they are close to enlightenment
 they are a light for beings; and  they have no fear of the lower existences
“Young man, those are the ten benefits for the bodhisattva mahāsattvas from becoming very learned.
On this topic, it was said
“These are taught to be the ten benefits From becoming very learned Just as they are known By the Tathāgata, the Buddha.
“They know the two aspects Of the kleśas and of purification
They reject the kleśas And follow the path of purification.
“The wise ones reject doubts And develop accurate views
They shun the wrong path And follow the correct path.
“They are at the door to deathlessness And they are close to enlightenment
They are a light for beings And they are not afraid of the lower existences.
“They know the numerous properties of having the kleśas, And in the same way they know the aspect of purification
They completely reject the kleśas And train in the supreme quality of purification.
“They expose the doubts of all beings. They have a view that is always accurate
They shun the wrong path And are always upon the true path of peace.
“They are always beside the doorway to deathlessness; They are always close to stainless enlightenment
They have become a light to all the multitudes of beings And they have no fear of the lower existences.
“Young man, for bodhisattva mahāsattvas who are intent on giving the Dharma
there are ten benefits that come from giving the Dharma. What are the ten benefits
They are:  they reject that which should not be done;  they engage in that which should be done;  they follow the Dharma of a worthy person
 they purify buddha realms;  they reach the Bodhimaṇḍa;  they give away material things;  they overcome the kleśas
 they overcome the kleśas;  they gives their portion to all beings
 they meditate on love toward those on whom their minds are focused; and  they attain happiness in this life
“Young man, for bodhisattva mahāsattvas who are intent on giving the Dharma, those are the ten benefits that come from giving the Dharma.
On this topic, it was said: “Those who give the supreme gift
The gift of the Dharma, are not misers
The Lord of the World has taught That they will have ten benefits.
“They reject all that should not be done; The wise ones engage in what should be done
They obtain the Dharma of a worthy person And maintain a motivation of generosity.
“They purify a buddha realm. Their realm is inconceivable
They are always on the Bodhimaṇḍa, Which is the result of giving the Dharma.
“They give away all material things. They follow the king of the Dharma
For those who have overcome the kleśas, Enlightenment is not hard to attain.
“With a loving mind they give Their portion to all beings
They are those who have no envy, And they have a happiness higher than that of humans.
“They are learned people who reject what should not be done. They are wise people who are always doing what should be done
They always follow the Dharma of great beings. They are learned people who always give the gift of the Dharma.
“Their realm is one that is always pure. They increase those qualities that are aspects of enlightenment
They are always close to the Bodhimaṇḍa. Those are the benefits of giving the Dharma.
“They have no kleśas, and give material things away. They know the characteristics of things
They are liberated from all attachment. They never have any impediments.
“They have a wise one’s mind. They wish for all beings to be happy
They have loving minds free of envy, And in this life their happiness is not little.
“Young man, there are ten benefits for bodhisattva mahāsattvas who dwell in emptiness. What are the ten benefits
They are:  they dwell in the dwelling of the Buddha;  their meditation is nondwelling
 they dwell in the dwelling of the Buddha;  their meditation is nondwelling
 they are not intent on rebirth;  they have no clinging to conduct;  they do not criticize superior beings
 they live in an appropriate manner;  they do not conceptualize the objects of perception;  they remain detached
 they do not disparage the buddhas; and  they possess the Dharma
“Young man, those are the ten benefits for bodhisattva mahāsattvas who dwell in emptiness.
On this topic, it was said
“The yogins dwell in that which is The dwelling of the lords of men And the field of activity of all the buddhas, Without the conception of a life.
“Without dependence on any existence They never give up the superior dhyāna
Having seen the nature of phenomena They have no intention of being reborn.
“Those who have no clinging to conduct Will not be dependent on conduct
They do not criticize in any way Another superior being who is without defilement.
“They live in an appropriate manner And are not known to quarrel
The yogins do not conceptualize things But live always detached.
“They do not disparage the Buddha Even for the sake of their life
While remaining in the emptiness of phenomena They are fearlessly visible in their body.
“They teach the Dharma with veneration For the inconceivable enlightenment of buddhahoo
Of all the lords of the worlds, And they have no doubt in the Dharma of the Buddha.
“The dwelling place of the supreme individuals, The level not that of the many kinds of tīrthika
There where there is no being, soul, or person: That is where the bodhisattvas dwell.
“They have no dwelling whatsoever. They remain in the bliss of nondwelling dhyāna
They see that phenomena have no self, no being, And they do not give rise to the concept of creation.
“They understand the nature of phenomena. They have no dependence even on conduct
They do not conceive of themselves as pure because of conduct, And always have faith in the buddhas.
“They meditate on the empty nature of all phenomena And they are never in any way inappropriate
And they are never in any way inappropriate. They possess the pure Dharma of the tathāgatasAnd do not disparage the guides.
“Young man, there are ten benefits for bodhisattva mahāsattvas who remain intently in meditative seclusion. What are the ten benefits
They are:  their minds are unpolluted;  they remain careful
 they keep the Buddha in mind;  they have faith in bodhisattva conduct;  they have no uncertainty concerning wisdom
 they have gratitude toward the buddhas;  they do not abandon the Dharma;  they maintain vows perfectly
 they have attained the level of self-discipline; and  they have the direct perception of the four discernments
“Young man, those are the ten benefits for bodhisattva mahāsattvas who remain intently in meditative seclusion.
On this topic, it was said: “Their minds are unpolluted. They have rejected all carelessness
They maintain carefulness. Their field of activity is meditative seclusion.
“They have faith in the buddhas, having heard Of the conduct of the Lord of the World
The yogins have no doubt concerning wisdom, The inconceivable wisdom of the buddhas.
“They have gratitude toward the buddhas, And have no doubt concerning the Dharma of the buddhas
They maintain their vows perfectly, And have attained the level of self-discipline.
“They have attained discernment. They delight in being alone in the forest
They have forsaken gain and honors, And their field of activity is meditative seclusion.
Those are the benefits of being dedicated to samādhi.
“Their minds are unpolluted. They have forsaken all carelessness. They are great beings who are always careful
“They keep in mind the buddhas, the supreme humans, And they have faith in their supreme conduct
They do not doubt the wisdom of the tathāgatas. Those are the benefits of being dedicated to samādhi.
“They always have gratitude toward the buddhas. They do not forsake the Dharma even for the sake of their life
At all times they keep their vows perfectly
“They have attained the level of self-discipline. They quickly attain the direct perception of discernment
They speak with the unceasing confidence of speech. They teach millions and billions of sūtras.
They speak with the unceasing confidence of speech. They teach millions and billions of sūtras.
“They have attained the level of self-discipline. They quickly attain the direct perception of discernment
“They quickly attain the enlightenment of buddhahood. They protect the teaching of the Guide
They defeat all who are adversaries. They extensively propagate the enlightenment of buddhahood.
“When those bodhisattvas pass away, They go to the realm of Sukhāvatī
They hear the highest Dharma from Amitāyus And attain the acceptance of the nonorigination of phenomena.
“Young man, there are ten benefits for bodhisattva mahāsattvas who are dedicated to solitude. What are the ten benefits
They are:  they have few activities;  they have gone far from busy crowds;  they have no quarrels
 they have no harm;  they do not increase defilements;  they do not create any cause for disputes
 they have perfectly peaceful conduct;  they maintain perfect self-restraint
 their minds are prepared for liberation; and  they quickly manifest liberation
“Young man, those are the ten benefits for bodhisattva mahāsattvas who are dedicated to solitude.
On this topic, it was said: “They always have few activities. They have gone far from busy crowds
They have no quarrels. They live alone in the forest.
“Without an intention to cause harm They do not increase their defilements
They have no cause for disputes. Those are the qualities of living in a forest.
“They are peaceful in their conduct. They restrain their body, speech, and mind
They are prepared for liberation; They will quickly reach liberation.
“They are yogins who always have few activities. They have shunned the many faults of busy gatherings
The yogins do not ever quarrel. Those are the qualities of living in a solitary place.
“When they have become saddened by the composite, They never harbor any longing for the world
And they do not increase their defilements. The ones who live in a forest gain these benefits.
“There never arises in them a cause for disputes. They live in solitude, delighting in peace
Their body, speech, and mind are restrained. The ones who live in solitude will have many qualities.
“There never arises in them a cause for disputes. They live in solitude, delighting in peace
Their body, speech, and mind are restrained. The ones who live in solitude will have many qualities.
“They are prepared for liberation. They will quickly attain the peace of liberation
They dwell in the forest and are close to liberation. Those who dwell in solitude will have all these qualities.
“Young man, there are ten benefits for bodhisattva mahāsattvas who live by receiving alms in the austerity of the disciplines of mendicancy
What are the ten benefits? They are
 they have no desire for a reputation;  they have no desire for fame
 they have no desire for honors or gains;  they remain within the four noble families
 they have no hypocrisy or boasting;  they do not praise themselves;  they do not criticize others
 they engage with households without aversion or attachment;  they give the Dharma without expectation of a reward
and  the Dharma they teach while remaining in the austerity of the disciplines of mendicancy will be remembered
“Young man, those are the ten benefits for bodhisattva mahāsattvas who live by receiving alms in the austerity of the disciplines of mendicancy.
They do not wish for fame. Those who remain in the disciplines of mendicanc
Are indifferent to gain and loss.
“They do not abandon the noble family. They have no hypocrisy or boastfulness
They remain within the four noble families. The wise ones are neither hypocritical nor boastful
Those are the qualities of dedication to mendicancy.
“They do not seek reputation, fame, or gain
The words they speak will be remembered. Recipients of alms will have those qualities.
“They have no attachment or aversion, And teach the Dharma with no thought of reward
On this topic, it was said
“They have no desire for a reputation
“They do not praise themselves or criticize others. They are not upset when spoken to harshly
They are not delighted when they hear themselves praised. Recipients of alms will have that contentment.
They are not delighted when they hear themselves praised. Recipients of alms will have that contentment.
“They give the gift of the Dharma without thought of reward. They do not search for fame or gain
The words they speak will be remembered. Those are the benefits that come from dedication to mendicancy.
“Young man, bodhisattva mahāsattvas who dwell in solitude while maintaining those qualities of the Dharm
will obtain the treasure of the buddhas, they will obtain the treasure of the Dharma
they will obtain the treasure of wisdom, and they will obtain the treasure of knowing the past, the future, and the present
“Young man, how do bodhisattva mahāsattvas obtain the treasure of the buddhas
Young man, bodhisattva mahāsattvas who practice alone, who dwell in solitude, will attain the five higher cognitions
What are the five higher cognitions? They ar
divine sight, divine hearing, the knowledge of others’ minds, remembering past lives, and possessing miraculous powers
Young man, those are the five higher cognitions that are obtained
Through divine vision, which transcends human vision, the countless, innumerable buddha bhagavāns in the eastern direction are seen
In the same way the countless, innumerable buddha bhagavāns in the southern, western, and northern directions are seen
They constantly have this vision of the buddhas
Young man, in that way the bodhisattva mahāsattvas obtain the treasure of the buddhas
“Young man, how do bodhisattva mahāsattvas obtain the treasure of the Dharma
The bodhisattva mahāsattvas hear with their divine hearing the Dharma that is taught by those buddha bhagavāns in the ten directions
They are constantly hearing the Dharma
Young man, in that way the bodhisattva mahāsattvas obtain the treasure of the Dharma
“Young man, how do the bodhisattva mahāsattvas obtain the treasure of wisdom
Young man, the bodhisattva mahāsattvas who have that wisdom obtain the entire Dharma
They do not forget anything that they have obtained, and teach the Dharma to beings
knowing what will be beneficial for any one person
Young man, in that way bodhisattva mahāsattvas obtain the treasure of wisdom
They do not forget anything that they have obtained, and teach the Dharma to beings, knowing what will be beneficial for any one person
Young man, in that way bodhisattva mahāsattvas obtain the treasure of wisdom
“Young man, how do bodhisattva mahāsattvas obtain the treasure of knowing the past, the future, and the present
Through the higher cognitions they gain the knowledge of the minds and conduct of all beings in the past, the future, and the present
Young man, in that way bodhisattva mahāsattvas obtain the treasure of knowing the past, the future, and the present
“Young man, in brief, bodhisattva mahāsattvas who maintain the qualities of the Dharma in that way will obtain the entire Dharma of the buddhas
This level is not reached by śrāvakas or pratyekabuddhas, let alone any adversary of the Dharma.
On this topic, it was said: “The wise ones who remain in solitude Will quickly attain the treasure of the buddhas
The treasure of the Dharma, the treasure of wisdom, The treasure of the past, and the five higher cognitions.”
Conclusion of the twenty-ninth chapter, “Ten Benefits.
Then the Bhagavān said to the youth Candraprabha
“Therefore, young man, you should train in this way, thinking, ‘I will abandon even the pleasures of the kingship of a divine cakravartin and enter homelessness.
“Young man, having entered homelessness you should maintain the disciplines of mendicancy, live in solitude
and develop perfect mildness and patience
“Young man, you should apply yourself diligently, as if your hair and clothes were on fire, and listen to the samādhi, the revealed equality of the nature of all phenomena
learn it, understand it, keep it, recite it to others
promote it, proclaim it, chant it, meditate on it with unadulterated meditation
promulgate it, and make it widely known to others
“Young man, you should always, like a rhinoceros, dwell without a companion in the forest.
“I remember many hundreds of eons ago There was a guide of limitless renown
Multitudes of humans, devas, and nāgas made offerings to him. He was a jina named Tejaguṇarāja.
Thereupon the Bhagavān, in order to explain this topic
gave a detailed teaching on this episode from the past by chanting the following verses to the youth Candraprabha
Who practiced the austerity of the disciplines of mendicancy, and who had peaceful minds.
Of a hundred and sixty million bhikṣus with higher cognitions, Who had completely attained the power of the discernments
“During that time there formed a communit
One billion seven hundred and sixty million towns
And each of them was five yojanas wide, And was particularly supreme, made of the seven precious materials.
“At that time there were in this Jambudvīp
“At that time, all of those perfect towns Were adorned by many hundreds of parks
And all those parks were adorned With fresh flowers and fruit, like massed clouds.
“Those perfect parks were adorned With various beautiful trees with edible fruits
“At that time, flocks of birds in banyan trees would sing— Hundreds of cuckoos, avadavats
and peacocks, And flocks of many other birds were heard: The songs of parrots, partridges, and snipes.
“There was the supreme sound of the songs of bees and partridges That equaled that of Dhṛtarāṣṭra, the king of geese
They had bright, multicolored bodies, brilliant with great hues, And sang delightful, beautiful, charming songs.
“At that time, there were gatherings of these birds, There were the songs of avadavats, peacocks, and parrots
Cuckoos, mynas, and a variety of other birds— Various kinds of songs from many birds.
“They dwelt in those hundreds of parks Where there were the blossoms of karnikara
Gardenia, aśoka, and kachnar trees, As well as red lotuses, blue lotuses, night lotuses, and white lotuses.
“They were beautified by lotus flower ponds That were adorned by a hundred thousand lotuses
There were beautiful, exquisite lotus ponds Adorned by the fragrance of the most delightful scents.
“Young man, you should always, like a rhinoceros, dwell without a companion in the forest.
There were beautiful, exquisite lotus ponds Adorned by the fragrance of the most delightful scents.
“At that time, the king in this Jambudvīpa Was the lord of men whose name was Dṛdhadatta
He had five hundred sons Who were handsome and beautiful to see.
“At that time the kingdom was peaceful and happy, Free of calamities, and filled with joy and peace
Jambudvīpa was adorned by many flowers. It was identical to a paradise, with no difference.
“At that time there was a jina, one with the ten strengths, Without bad actions, who taught this supreme samādhi
‘The beings within existence are like dreams. There is no one who is born and no one who dies.
“ ‘There is no being to be found, and no soul, or person. These phenomena are like dreams or a plantain tree
Like illusions, the same as lightning in the sky; Like the moon on water, the same as a mirage.
“ ‘There is no person who dies in this world, Who departs and goes to another world
Covered with jackfruits, mangos, rose apples, and breadfruit, And with hundreds of karnikara, magnolia, and puṇṇaga trees.
But the karma that has been created is not destroyed. It will ripen as good and bad results within saṃsāra.
“ ‘It is neither eternal nor is it annihilated. There is no accumulation or presence of karma
Yet if it has been created there is no way to avoid encountering it, While that which is created by others will not be experienced.
“ ‘There is no passing away or returning. There is no existence of all things, yet neither are they nonexistent
There is no pure engagement with the locus of a view. There is no conduct of beings and no engagement with peace.
“ ‘The conduct of the sugatas, the qualities of the jinas, Are birthlessness, peace, and the absence of attributes
The supreme leaders, the buddhas, have these strengths and retentions, And the strength of the ten strengths.
“ ‘The supreme good qualities, the accumulation of qualities, Are the supreme qualities, wisdom, retentions, strengths
The supreme manifestation of miraculous powers, And the attainment of the five supreme higher cognitions.
“ ‘There is no essence here to be known whatsoever. There is no coming, no going; that is the subtle mode of phenomena
The essence of phenomena has no movement whatsoever, Thus the mode of phenomena is the mode of no movement.
“ ‘The natural mode is not in the accumulation of words. This mode, this nature, does not dwell anywhere
The natural mode is without dwelling, is nondependent. It is the level of peace, the stainless domain of the jinas.
The natural mode is without dwelling, is nondependent. It is the level of peace, the stainless domain of the jinas.
“ ‘It is the mode of peace, complete peace, total peace. That mode does not dwell anywhere
It always accompanies the nature of things. It is subtle, difficult to see, and an unfluctuating state.
“ ‘It does not fluctuate but continues to be itself. It is a continuing nature that neither stays nor comes
This continuing nature cannot be described. It is the empty, unfluctuating continuity of phenomena.
“ ‘It is taught in words but it is not the mode of words. The mode of the nature of words is the mode of phenomena
The aggregation of words has no location anywhere, And that mode of its nature is the mode of phenomena.
“ ‘The words that describe the mode are not the mode of being. The nature of phenomena is a mode of subtle meaning
Though words are spoken, that is not the mode of being; Words cannot be found and neither can the mode of being.
“ ‘There is no endlessness, nor an end, nor a mode in between. There is no existence nor nonexistence, nor a partial mode
The knowledge of that mode of nature Is the same in the teachings of all the supreme jinas.
“ ‘The stainless, pure, ultimate state— Peace, complete peace, without stain, free of stain
There are no concepts or pride in the state of peace That is taught by the Jina, the one with perfect compassion.
“ ‘In this there is no usage of letters. It is a vast mode, a vast mode of meaning
The buddhas honor it; the jinas praise it. The appearance of the Dharma is a subtle mode.
“ ‘The unequaled sugatas remain in that Stainless, vast treasure of the Dharma
They teach the stainless, precious Dharma, The ultimate truth of emptiness, the subtle mode of meaning.’
“When King Dṛdhadatta heard That the supreme human was teaching this samādhi
He then came into the presence of the compassionate Jina Accompanied by eighty quintillion others.
“The sovereign over men felt veneration for the Jina Who was endowed with the strengths, and bowed down to his feet
While he stayed in front of the one with the ten strengths, Filled with joy, he placed his ten fingers together in homage.
“The Jina, who was perfect, with control over his senses, Perceived the king’s pure conduct
The supreme human knew his aspiration And taught him this supreme samādhi.
This mode, this nature, does not dwell anywhere
The supreme human knew his aspirationAnd taught him this supreme samādhi.
“When the king had heard this ultimate truth He experienced a vast, superior joy
He gave up all of the four continents. He abandoned pleasures and left his home.
“When the king gave up the world and entered homelessness For the sake of enlightenment and to become a jina
All the people in this Jambudvīpa Gave up all sensory pleasures and entered homelessness too.
“At that time there was a vast assembly with the ten strengths. There were many diligent bhikṣus and bhikṣuṇīs
At that time, herbs grew without ploughing, And devas came to serve and attend to them.
“The three orange Dharma robes manifested, Perfectly cut and sewn, without parallel
Unsullied, stainless, adorned, beautifully golden, Arising from the Buddha’s qualities and the power of merit.
“See, young man, look how that supreme king Gave up the entire world and entered homelessness
In the age of destruction there will be many beings Who will have few possessions but will not leave their homes.
“There will be many in chains and suffering punishments, Who are abused, threatened, and have unwished-for suffering
There will be many who will have to endure harm from royal families, Who will have very few possessions and no food in their homes.
“They will have very short lives and no wealth. They will be very careless and have no power of merit
They will be stupid, and unskilled in any craft. They will be in poverty with nothing in their homes.
“They will be impure and desire the wives of others. They will be envious and extremely rash
They will be degenerate and behave badly— Yet they will say, ‘I am going to be a buddha.’
“They will make deceptive promises and be brazen, saying, ‘I am wealthy and I will give the wealth of the Dharma to the world.
They will cause harm, be hypocritical and dishonest— Yet they will say, ‘I am going to be a buddha.’
“They will delight in killing, binding, and attacking others; They will have bad conduct, and be cruel and aggressive
They will have no gratitude, be divisive and violent— Yet will say, ‘I am a noble practitioner of bodhisattva conduct.’
“They will become angry with anyone Who they hear teaching bodhisattva conduct
They will have no gratitude, be divisive and violent— Yet will say, ‘I am a noble practitioner of bodhisattva conduct.’
When they hear something that is stupid and mistaken They will repeat those blameworthy words a hundred times.
“Young man, having heard these words of mine, Do not follow those others
If you wish to reach the highest enlightenment They are not to be trusted, even in a dream.
“One could recount for hundreds of eons the many qualities Ascribed to the austere disciplines of mendicancy
But without possessing those qualities One will not attain the peace of the highest enlightenment.
“Always be good and gentle. Always have pure conduct and a serene mind
Continually maintain pure conduct, And before long you will attain the supreme samādhi.
“Do not be proud and do not be harsh. Always have a mind that is serene
Eliminate all pride, arrogance, and hiding of your faults, And attain this supreme samādhi.
“Always remember the Jina’s qualities. The color of perfect gold, shining brightly
Like the sky at night filled with stars: The Sage’s body is filled with signs.
“The descendant of Manu who remembers the moon of the Sage While walking, sitting, standing, or lying dow
Will always have the Teacher present before him, And he will have vast happiness. {i
“Holding many powders and ointments, And excellent parasols, banners, canopies, and flags
Always make offerings to the Sugata And this supreme samādhi will soon be attained.
“Holding many musical instruments And excellent, exquisite incense, garlands, and flowers
Make offerings always to the Jina’s stūpas And this supreme samādhi will soon be attained.
“With many kinds of excellent songs and dance, With amusements and performances made with a pure mind
With excellent lights and incense, Always make excellent offerings to the unequaled one. {i
“With hundreds of paṇava drums and loud mṛdaṅga drums, With paṭaha drums, lutes, the excellent sound of flutes
With the qualities of music of various kinds of melodious sounds, Make an offering to the Guide with a pure mind.
With the qualities of music of various kinds of melodious sounds, Make an offering to the Guide with a pure mind.
With paṭaha drums, lutes, the excellent sound of flutes
“Create beautiful images of the Buddha, Perfectly made of precious materials
That are attractive and extremely beautiful, And this supreme samādhi will soon be attained.
“Make excellent images that are fashioned From gold or silver, and also sandalwood
That are attractive and extremely beautiful, And this supreme samādhi will soon be attained. {i
“Make images that are fashioned of clay, Or stone, or wood, or painted
“Always remain in the solitude of forests, Forsaking the joys of villages and towns
Be without a companion, like a rhinoceros, And this supreme samādhi will soon be attained.
“I am the Lord of the Dharma; you are my son. Train in this samādhi practice of mine
I was at that time Dṛdhadatta, the world-renowned Ruler over the descendants of Manu.
“Seeking this peace, this supreme samādhi, I made offerings to countless buddhas in the past
I always maintained pure conduct And I honored those with the ten strengths.
“Seeking this peace, this supreme samādhi, In the past I gave up my sons and wives
I gave away my supreme, excellent head, legs, Arms, and eyes without ever being disheartened.
“Seeking this peace, this supreme samādhi, I gave away wealth and grain
Hundreds of male and female slaves, and many jewels, And satisfied numerous beggars.
“Seeking this peace, this supreme samādhi, In the past I gave away great quantitie
Of pearls, crystals, gold, conches, ammonite stones, beryls, Perfectly pure jewels, and a mass of coral,
“Seeking this peace, this supreme samādhi, I gave away vast amounts of excellent jewelr
Of various kinds, such as perfect strings of pearls, Lion jewelry, and nets of jewels.
“Seeking this peace, this supreme samādhi, In the past I gave away many million
Of fine, excellent clothes that were perfectly clean, Made of the finest silk and cloth and beautified by gold threads.
“Seeking this peace, this supreme samādhi, I gave away various kinds of elephants, horses, chariots
And my own beloved sons and women, Without ever experiencing any unhappiness.
“Seeking this peace, this supreme samādhi, Whenever I saw people who were very poor, Who were in distress and suffering because of their need, I freed them from their poverty.
“Seeking this peace, this supreme samādhi, I have in the past given to beggars Trillions of horses, elephants, and chariots Draped in nets of precious jewel adornments.
“Seeking this peace, this supreme samādhi, I have in the past joyfully and with compassion Given away many trillions Of excellently decorated parks.
“Seeking this peace, this supreme samādhi, I have in the past given away beautifully adorned Villages, towns, regions, and market towns
And having given them felt continuous joy.
“Seeking this peace, this supreme samādhi, I have in the past given to those who requested them Heaps of jewels as large as Sumeru And a similar amount of clothes and adornments.
“Seeking this peace, this supreme samādhi, I have made those who are very poor rich, I have protected those who were in great distress
And I have made happy many who were enduring suffering.
“When I was a sovereign over this world And saw the suffering of the population
I felt compassion and wished them to be happy, And gave my kingdom to them.
“Young man, the marvelous things that I have done, And the hardships I have undergone for many hundreds of eons
I would not be able to complete recounting them Even in a quintillion eons.
“Seeking this peace, this supreme samādhi, I underwent astonishing hardships
The people without faith in the Sugata’s conduct Will have minds that become crazed and polluted.
“Young man, I declare this to you: Have faith in me; my words are not untrue
The Sugata does not speak words that are false. The compassionate Jina always speaks the truth.
“Young man, I declare this to you: Have faith in me; my words are not untrue
The Sugata does not speak words that are false. The compassionate Jina always speaks the truth.
However I attain this supreme samādhi I will then free millions of beings from suffering.
“These many different kinds of practices I will have carried out for many eons
“In the moment that I have attained This samādhi, the path of great wisdom, Having attained this supreme samādh
I will see numerous millions of buddhas.
“I will have attained infinite miraculous powers, And my emanations will go to hundreds of realms
And there I will ask the compassionate ones Many quintillions of questions.
“The sugatas will give me answers For my quintillions of questions
And having obtained them I will remember them all And I will not forget even a single word.
“Having listened to the answers to those Quintillions of correct questions
I will teach the stainless state of peace And establish many beings on the path of wisdom.
“I will remain in this samādhi And train in it for many hundreds of eons
And will first bring many quintillions of beings On to the highest stainless path.
“Those who have not seen the previous sugatas Who have taught this stainless wa
Will not be able to have faith In the supreme samādhi of emptiness, the ultimate truth.
“The people who have faith, are wise, and know the practice, Are always joyful when they hear The way that is correct and profound, And do not become frightened or terrified.
“They hold the supreme enlightenment. They have been reborn as my sons
They are like fig-tree flowers, And I practice for hundreds of eons for their sake.
“They who possess this supreme samādhi Have no fear of falling into unfortunate existences
Are always free of the eight disadvantageous states, And will see numerous millions of buddhas.
“They who have this supreme samādhi in their hands, I prophesy, will have unending understanding, And like the kind Jina who has infinite fame, They will accomplish many benefits for beings.
“They who have this supreme samādhi in their hands, I prophesy, will have unending understanding, And like the kind Jina who has infinite fame, They will accomplish many benefits for beings.
“They who possess this samādhi Will have understanding and memory
High wisdom, will retain what they have heard, And will possess vast confidence of speech.
“They who possess this samādhi Will receive the offerings of devas, Will be continually revered by humans
And will be constantly protected by the hosts of spirits.
“They who possess this supreme samādhi Do not die in fire or water
Are not harmed by poison or weapons, And cannot be reached by enemies.
“They who possess this supreme samādhi Will always dwell in forest bowers
Where they will be constantly attended by devas, And where many yakṣas will be their servants.
“They who possess this supreme samādhi Will have wisdom that is as vast as the ocean
Will describe without impediment the qualities of the Sage, And make known correctly the qualities of the Buddha.
“They who possess this supreme samādhi Will have endless, boundless learnin
That is beyond measure, like space, And will hold the torch of wisdom that dispels darkness.
“They who possess this supreme samādhi Will always be gentle, will speak appropriate words
Will be beloved in the midst of their followers, And their speech will be like the lion’s roar.
“They who possess this supreme samādhi Will be like healing physicians
The support, protector, and refuge of many, And will bring illumination to the worlds.
“They who possess this supreme samādhi Will not take pleasure in sexual intercourse
They will enjoy śamatha and reach the bliss of dhyāna. With a peaceful voice they will speak of peace.
“They who possess this supreme samādhi Will not take pleasure in conceptualization
Will be free of the entire multitude of concepts, And those wise ones will constantly be in meditation.
“They who possess this supreme samādhi Will attain extraordinary visio
And will see the infinite jinas. They will be leaders with infinite sight.
“They who possess this supreme samādhi Will have the sweet and melodious voice of a crane
The sound of the avadavat and a drumbeat, And a singing sound and gentle voice.
“They who possess this supreme samādhi Will have a voice that is like resounding thunder
Their gentle speech will be like the song of a goose And their voice will have the fifty aspects of speech.
“They who possess this supreme samādhi Will speak with an inconceivable voice That has the pleasant sound of the various aspects of speech For numerous quintillions of eons.
“They who possess this supreme samādhi Will not have attachment to food
Will not delight in alms bowls or dharma robes, But with few desires they will be content and abstinent.
“They who possess this supreme samādhi Do not praise themselves And never criticize others
They always delight in dhyāna and have a subtle mind.
“They who possess this supreme samādhi Always examine themselves
Do not look for mistakes in others, And the entire world does not impede them.
“They who possess this supreme samādhi Have pure conduct and untroubled minds
Are never deceitful or dishonest, Are always gentle, and always delight in liberation.
“They who possess this supreme samādhi Are always motivated to generosity
Take no delight in avarice, And always have correct conduct.
“They who possess this supreme samādhi Are handsome, good looking, and attractive
Their bodies shine like the purest gold And have the thirty-two primary signs of a great being.
“They who possess this supreme samādhi Always have an attractive appearance
Are observed and beloved by many people, And those people never have enough of gazing upon them.
Are observed and beloved by many people, And those people never have enough of gazing upon them.
“They who possess this supreme samādhi Always delight, gladden, and enchant Devas, nāgas, and likewise the yakṣas
Who enter towns and praise them.
“They who possess this supreme samādhi Always have Brahmā, Śakra, and many powerful deities Acting as their attendants, But there is no pride in their mind.
“They who possess this supreme samādhi Have no fear of the lower existences
They have no fear of the disadvantageous existences or bad rebirths. They are completely free of all fear of bad rebirths.
“They who possess this supreme samādhi Have no doubts or uncertainties On hearing in detail the supreme Dharma of the Buddha
And they follow that profound wisdom.
“They who possess this supreme samādhi, Whatever subtle Dharma teachings they hear They attain perfect mastery of them all, And gain their power and detailed reasoning.
“They who possess this supreme samādhi Constantly think, ‘I will always act in accordance With what the Jina’s words have taught,
And attain unique, supreme retention.
“They who possess this supreme samādhi Will, when the time of their death comes
Have before them the compassionate Amitābha And his host of bhikṣus.
“They who possess this supreme samādhi Are those who have attained the retentions
Have perfect mastery over the treasure of the Dharma, And possess the unceasing words of eloquence.
“They who possess this supreme samādhi, With peaceful conduct and peaceful minds Will be an illumination for beings Wherever those holders of the Dharma go.
“They attain the ten bhūmis: Perfect Joy, Stainless, Shining, Brilliance, Difficult to Master, Manifest
Gone Far, Unwavering, Perfect Understanding, and Clouds of Dharma. {i
Life, karma, materials, and devotion, And the strengths of aspiration, miracles, and birth, Dharma, mind, and likewise great wisdom. {ii
“Those heroes attain the ten powers
And the strengths of aspiration, miracles, and birth, Dharma, mind, and likewise great wisdom. {ii
“They who possess this supreme samādhi Are skilled in the various aspects of the supreme Dharma treasure
Have attained the perfect power of the dharmakāya, And cut through the doubts of all beings.
“If all beings were compassionate bhagavāns, And were sugatas until existence comes to an end
And if someone were to make offerings to them for many hundreds of eons Or for more eons than there are sand grains in the Ganges,
“And if in this latter time of destruction Someone were to hear this samādh
And say only the words ‘I rejoice in this!’ The previous merit would not be a fraction of this accumulation.
“Young man, whoever has this practice of peace, This supreme samādhi, the ultimate truth of emptiness
Propagates it and creates copies of it, That one is a dharmabhāṇaka with wisdom.”
Conclusion of the thirtieth chapter, “Tejaguṇarāja.
Then the Bhagavān said to the youth Candraprabha
“Therefore, young man, bodhisattva mahāsattvas who think, ‘I shall understand the languages of all beings and, knowing their higher or lesser capabilities, I will teach them the Dharma
those bodhisattva mahāsattvas should listen to the samādhi, the revealed equality of the nature of all phenomena
learn it, understand it, keep it, recite it to others, promote it
proclaim it, chant it, meditate on it with unadulterated meditation, promulgate it, and make it widely known to others.
Thereupon the Bhagavān spoke these verses
“They who, desiring liberation, possess this stainless samādhi See the countless guides of the past
Ask those lords of the world about their previous practice, And those bodhisattvas dwell in supreme roots of merit.
“They who, desiring liberation, possess this stainless samādhi Obtain the highest happiness of devas and humans
Obtain the supreme offerings of devas and humans, And obtain the happiness of dhyāna, the supreme, noble happiness.
“They who, desiring liberation, possess this stainless samādhi Do not become thrilled on hearing the highest praises
Do not become saddened by being criticized, And like a mountain are unmoved by the eight worldly concerns.
“They who, desiring liberation, possess this stainless samādhi Speak perfectly pleasantly, with gentle words
Do not frown, always speak sincerely, Have a smiling face, and have been instructed by the guides.
“They who, desiring liberation, possess this stainless samādhi Are pleasant, good company, have a gentle mind
Are always restrained and established in self-discipline, And are very gentle, have pleasing speech, and speak tenderly.
“They who, desiring liberation, possess this stainless samādhi Do not quarrel or cause conflict when they speak
They have freed themselves from all stubbornness and anger And are always joyful, pleasant, and gentle.
“They who, desiring liberation, possess this stainless samādhi Are always wise and are constantly motivated to generosity
When they see beings in great suffering they give them their food; They delight in giving to others, and not in their own enjoyment.
“They who, desiring liberation, possess this stainless samādhi Are admired by a hundred thousand devas
Are always attended by nāgas, asuras, and yakṣas, And are protected by those who dwell in the forest and its environs.
“They speak with unimpeded words, like the voice of Brahmā, Have a voice like the song of a goose, a voice like a kiṃnara’s song
Have the fifty aspects of speech and have a sound that brings joy, And have a resounding voice, a proclaiming voice, a perfect voice.
“Even if someone knew how to reduce All the worlds into their smallest particles
They who possess this supreme, stainless samādhi Would voice sounds that were even more numerous.
“They who possess this stainless samādhi Attain the ten powers, and attain the eight and two bhūmis
The wise ones attain the inconceivable qualities of a buddha, Subjugate all māras, and reach the highest enlightenment.” {i
Conclusion of the thirty-first chapter, “Benefits.
The wise ones attain the inconceivable qualities of a buddha, Subjugate all māras, and reach the highest enlightenment.” {i
Then the Bhagavān said to the youth Candraprabha
Thereupon the Bhagavān spoke these verses
“In the ones who know the peace that is the nature of phenomena No desire arises, no anger arises
Nor in those great leaders does ignorance ever arise. They have eliminated all kleśas without remainder.
“They who know the peace that is the nature of phenomena Are heart children of the Sugata who do not abandon the training
They are heroes who never fall under the power of women. Everywhere they rejoice in the teaching of the sugatas.
“They who know the peace that is the nature of phenomena Are wise, sagacious, and know the way of wisdom
They see infinite, endless buddhas And know infinite dhāraṇīs and wisdom.
“They who know the peace that is the nature of phenomena Will before long become a lord of humans
They know the skills of healing and bestow happiness, And they are able to remove all the pain of suffering.
“They who know the peace that is the nature of phenomena Know that sentient beings are suffering
They always beat the drum of the elixir. They will before long become a guide.
“They are the supreme physicians, skilled in healing. They know the origin of all illnesses and how to be freed from them
meditate on it with unadulterated meditation, promulgate it, and make it widely known to others.
learn it, understand it, keep it, recite it to others, promote it, proclaim it, chant it
“Therefore, young man, bodhisattva mahāsattvas who wonder, ‘How can I know the nature of all phenomena?
should listen to this samādhi, the revealed equality of the nature of all phenomena
They have wisdom and train correctly. Having trained they liberate many lost beings.
“They who know the peace that is the nature of phenomena Are wise heroes who are skilled in the nature of emptiness
They have no attachment to the world and always their food is alms, And they bring many beings to supreme enlightenment.
“They who know the peace that is the nature of phenomena Are moons among people, superior through the power of patience
They are not angry even if struck with stones and sticks, And they are not disturbed even if their limbs are severed.
“They who know the peace that is the nature of phenomena Have the strength of being established in the strength of patience
Not seeing a thing that is tolerated, they are perfectly at peace. They are wise heroes who do not become proud of the strength of their patience.
“They who know the peace that is the nature of phenomena, Never have in mind the idea ‘I am cutting through things’
For them all things are nonexistent, always empty, And they have eliminated every single conceptual identification.
“Such are they who teach the supreme nature of phenomena. They will before long reach the highest enlightenment
They comprehend the scope of the nature of phenomena. They give a gift that is infinite and endless.
“They who know the peace that is the nature of phenomena Teach infinite millions of sūtra
That are more numerous than sand grains in the Ganges, And there is no interruption in their eloquence.
“They who know the peace that is the nature of phenomena Have wisdom as high as Sumeru, Constantly for a hundred trillion eons
And their teaching of the Dharma knows no end.
“They who know the peace that is the nature of phenomena Have a vast, abundant, inconceivable eloquence
They constantly seek supreme enlightenment And teach infinite millions of sūtras.
“They who know that these phenomena have no substance Perfectly hear and remember the entirety Of the Dharma that the lords of humans have taugh
And do not doubt even a single word.
They know the origin of all illnesses and how to be freed from them
And do not doubt even a single word.
Of the Dharma that the lords of humans have taugh
“They who know that phenomena are always empty Are at all times uniquely superior in their generosity
They are patrons who give happiness to those who suffer. When they see beings suffer they satisfy them with jewels.
“They who know that phenomena are always empty Will always become the kings of Jambudhvaja
At all times they have love for all the living And always bring infinite happiness to beings.
“They who know that phenomena are always empty Are heroes who give away their sons, daughters, and slaves
Those great leaders’ minds never waver, As they give away their hands, their feet, their head, and their kingdom.
“They who know that phenomena are always empty Have no anger in their mind, even in a dream, Even though their limbs are cut from their body
For them it is an offering to the guides, the lords of humans.
“They who know that phenomena are always empty Make offerings to all the guides of the past
Make offerings to the lords of humans in the future, And venerate all the guides in the present.
“They who hear and retain this sūtra in the degenerate times Are wise individuals who possess the treasure of the sugatas
They are established in the supreme retentions, And before long will become guides of the worlds.
“They who do not forget but teach this sūtra Are wise individuals who will never become blind
Throughout many eons they will not lose a limb, And will always avoid the eight disadvantageous states.
“They will never be reborn in the lower existences. They will always have a beautiful body with the primary signs of a great being
They will always cultivate the five higher cognitions, And those heroes will always be in the presence of the sugatas.
“Endowed with wisdom they will manifest many emanations That will go to millions of realms to guide beings
Of all those who see this multitude of buddha emanations, That many beings will be brought to supreme enlightenment.
Of all those who see this multitude of buddha emanations, That many beings will be brought to supreme enlightenment.
They who hear and retain this sūtra in the degenerate times Will be endowed with memory, understanding, wisdom, and constancy
They will become powerful through the strength of their diligence. They will have great brilliance and they will reach the culmination of the Dharma.
They who hold this samādhi of peace in the degenerate time Are heroes established in the brahmavihāras
They quickly attain the eight and two bhūmis, And swiftly subjugate the māras. {i
Those who always meditate on this sūtra of peace Will attain power and possess the highest strengths
They will always be ones who are intent on benefiting beings, And will realize the highest enlightenment at the foot of the Bodhi tree. {ii
“Those who meditate that these phenomena are empty Constantly radiate ten billion light ray
And eclipse even the discs of the suns. Those heroes will, before long, become guides of the worlds.
“In the past I practiced this field of peace For many quintillions of eons
My diligence upon this path was unceasing And Dīpaṃkara prophesied I would become a jina.
“You also should follow my practice of this sūtra, This teaching that leads to the profound ultimate truth
There are many tīrthikas who are lost in error concerning this. They revile enlightenment and fall into the terrible lower realms.
“During many quintillions of eons They will experience unendurable sufferings of heat
And even after many millions of eons have passed They will still not die for that reason.
“Those who in the terrible latter times Protect this sūtra of the Sugata, this state of peace
Will attain the highest enlightenment without difficulty. They are the prophesied holders of the Dharma in the future.”
Conclusion of the thirty-second chapter, “The Teaching on the Nature of All Phenomena.
Then the Bhagavān said to the youth Candraprabha
meditate on it with unadulterated meditation, promulgate it, and make it widely known to others
learn it, understand it, keep it, recite it to others, promote it, proclaim it, chant it
“Therefore, young man, bodhisattva mahāsattvas who wish to train in purifying the great higher cognition of all phenomen
should listen to the samādhi, the revealed equality of the nature of all phenomena
“Young man, what is the purification of the great higher cognition of all phenomena
Then at that time the Bhagavān gave a detailed Dharma teaching on purifying the great higher cognition of all phenomena by chanting the following extensive verses to the youth Candraprabha
“This, young man, is what is called ‘the purification of the great higher cognition of all phenomena.’ 
“The bodhisattva mahāsattva who has those higher cognitions manifests all the manifestations of samādhi and teaches the Dharma to beings
Someone who practices in contradiction to it Will not become free of attachment.
“That higher cognition, that wisdom, Is the inconceivable wisdom of buddhahood
Someone who remains in attachment Will never know that wisdom.
“The numerous inconceivable Dharmas Are taught by using words
Someone who is attached to words Will not know the meaning of the teaching.
it the absence of movement in the aggregate of wisdom, it is having the discerning insight of the aggregate of liberation, and it is seeing correctly as it is the aggregate of the insight of the wisdom of liberation
It is having no grasping toward all phenomena, it is having no clinging to the aggregate of correct conduct
it is having no pride in the aggregate of samādhi
“The purification of the great higher cognitions Is an incontrovertible teaching
“How can someone teach the meaning Who does not know the meaning behind the words
Someone who has not learned what the true nature is Teaches that which is not the Dharma as the Dharma.
Within thousands of world
“The one meaning of the differing words Of the sūtras that have been taught by m
Is something that cannot be stated.
“Through contemplating a single word All of them will be meditated on
All of the many kinds of Dharma that have been taught By however many buddhas there have been.
“For people who have mastered the meaning That all phenomena are selfless
When they have learned this word The Dharmas of the Buddha will not be hard to attain.
“All phenomena are the Buddha’s Dharma. They who have learned the nature of phenomena
They know the nature of phenomena And do not contradict the nature of phenomena.
“All words are the Buddha’s words, As all words have no substance
Although one seeks them in the ten directions The words of the Buddha will not be found.
“These words are the Buddha’s words. Though one seeks them in the ten directions
These unsurpassable words are not to be found. They have never been found and never will be found.
“The Buddha’s words are unsurpassable. There is nothing higher than the Buddha’s words
There is not an atom of them that is to be found, And that is why they are called unsurpassable.
“An atom, a phenomenon, is not produced. Although explanations use the term ‘atom,
Something the size of an atom cannot be found; It is a term used in teaching on the worldly level.
Thus they who know phenomena Realize the highest enlightenment,
“The unfindability of phenomena is found, But that finding also cannot be found
“And having realized the highest enlightenment They will turn the wheel of the Dharma
Through turning the wheel of the Dharma They teach the Buddha’s Dharma.
“The bodhisattvas who realize The highest wisdom of buddhahood
“The absence of existents, the absence of aspiration, The absence of attributes, and emptiness
Because of that are called buddhas, As they have realized buddhahood’s wisdom.
It is these doorways to liberation That the Buddha taught as doorways.
“The eyes, the ears, and the nose, The tongue, the body, and likewise the mind
The buddhas have explained That they are by nature empty.
“They who know in that way The nature of phenomena
Knowing the characteristics of phenomena, They will not be in disagreement with it.
Knowing the characteristics of phenomena, They will not be in disagreement with it.
“This is the realm of experience of the heroes, Of the bodhisattvas, the protectors
They know the emptiness of phenomena And they never have any doubt.
“Those who know the nature of phenomena, Those ones are called a buddha
They guide countless, innumerable Beings to enlightenment.
“That which is accomplished by the word buddha Is also accomplished by the words correct conduct
The words buddha and correct conduct Have the same characteristic.
“However many words are spoken Whether superior, middling, or lesser
They are all taught in the one word meditation, And in the one word buddha.
“The Buddha’s Dharma is stated To have no location and no direction
It has no birth and no cessation. Neither is it single nor multiple.
“It is not new and it is not old. There is nothing to be proud of
It is not blue and it is not yellow; Neither is it white, nor red.
“That which is taught through verses Is inexpressible and ungraspable
This miraculous activity of the Sage Is beyond the level of verses. 
“The buddha who has passed into nirvāṇa Is seen in the form of a buddha
The one who imagines that he is present Will also see the buddha’s miracles.
“When someone has reached nirvāṇa There is no being that is to be found
That is how the Dharma is taught And many beings are liberated.
“Just as the sun and moon Appear in a bronze bow
Without their own form going there, Such is the nature of phenomena.
“Those who know the nature Of phenomena to be like reflections
They do not see the Buddha’s body As being a body of form.
“This phenomenon has no body; There is no body in it at all
A phenomenon has no body, And that is the body of the Buddha.
“Those who see the dharmakāya, They are the ones who see the Guide
The dharmakāyas are the buddhas. That is seeing the buddhas.
The dharmakāyas are the buddhas. That is seeing the buddhas.
“Those who see the dharmakāya, They are the ones who see the Guide
“That which is specified through dependence Is specified to not be specific
Those who wish to be renunciants Should understand this approach. 
“Whoever thinks, ‘I have attained,’ Is for that reason said to be without attainment
The one who is said to be a renunciant Is the one who thinks, ‘I have not attained renuncation.’
“Those who have not learned this profundity, How can they teach the Dharma
They cannot describe it Through using profound words.
“The five skandhas are insubstantial. Being nonexistent they arise
For the one to whom the skandhas arise, There is nothing that arises.
“Those characteristics of the skandhas Are the characteristics of all phenomena
Those characteristics are taught But there are no characteristics that exist.
“The characteristic of phenomena Is the same as that of space and sky
As seen in the past, the future, And as in the present.
“Space is taught to be ungraspable; There is nothing there to be grasped
That is the nature of phenomena: It is ungraspable like space.
“That is how phenomena are taught, That there is nothing to be seen
For the one who does not see phenomena, For him phenomena are beyond conception.
“These phenomena have no nature; They have no nature to be found
For those dedicated to buddhahood’s enlightenment This is the domain of the yogin.
“The ones who know phenomena in that way Will not have attachment to phenomena
Not being attached to phenomena, They understand the conceptualization of phenomena.
“The bodhisattvas, the protectors, Have annihilated all phenomena
Having annihilated the conceptualization of phenomena They do not become proud in the Buddha’s Dharma.
“Having no pride in that preeminence, They examine and teach that preeminence
The ones who know that preeminence Will have no pride throughout ten million eons.
“The foolish examine that preeminence And subsequently continue in saṃsāra
It has no location that can be found Even though one searches throughout the ten directions.
“The bodhisattva, knowing emptiness, Has no attachment to saṃsāra
Has no attachment to saṃsāra
They practice to attain enlightenmentBut their practice cannot be found.
“Their passage cannot be found, Like that of a bird through the sky
The bodhisattvas realize That nature of enlightenment.
“Just as a well-trained conjurer Is able to display illusions
Although there are many kinds of forms There is no form that can be grasped.
“There is no pride in acquisition or nonacquisition, As there is no acquisition in acquisition
That wisdom is like an illusion, And that illusion has no location.
“Thus the understanding of fools Is a conceptualization of empty phenomena
Engaging in conceptualization, They are doomed to the six existences.
“Beings undergo rebirth and aging; There is no end to their being reborn
There is no end to the suffering Of skandhas that are born and die.
“The suffering of birth and saṃsāra Is the conceptualization of foolish understanding
This does not cease throughout eons; Beings continue in saṃsāra for millions of eons.
“They continue in the performance of activities, Whether that of engagement or disengagement
They delight in the actions they perform, But those activities will not liberate them.
“They are carried along on a river of actions, And their actions will have no end
They will die over and over, Always dwelling in the realm of the māras.
“Overpowered by the māras, with poor understanding, They act through being afflicted by the kleśas
They experience births and deaths That take place in various worlds.
“Those various beings who are blind fools, They proceed toward death
They are killed and destroyed, And their existences are terrible.
“Those with foolish understanding Kill each other with weapons
By continuing with that kind of activity Their sufferings only increase.
“Those with foolish understanding think, ‘My sons’ and ‘my wealth.
They conceive of that which has no existence And thereby continue to extend saṃsāra.
“They who extend saṃsāra, Those individuals continue in saṃsāra
They each go their individual ways And therefore they are called individual beings.
“They reject the Buddha’s teaching And teach numerous other doctrines
They are under the power of Māra And they will not attain liberation.
“They reject the Buddha’s teaching And teach numerous other doctrines
They are under the power of Māra And they will not attain liberation.
“These fools, because of their desires, Have intercourse with putrid women
They will be reborn as putrid beings, Falling into the lower realms as a result.
“The buddhas praise neither desire, Nor having intercourse with women
That is a terrifying noose, The dreadful noose of women.
“Those who are wise avoid it Like a vicious poisonous snake
They do not put their trust in women. That is not the path to enlightenment.
“They meditate on the path to enlightenment That has been taught by all the buddhas
Having meditated on that path They become unsurpassable buddhas.
“Those who have become unsurpassable Become shrines in the world
With unsurpassable wisdom They become unsurpassable buddhas.
“They follow the poṣadha vows And follow the path of correct conduct
They lead toward enlightenment Countless millions of beings.
“They accomplish the benefit of Innumerable, countless beings
They are heroes with great wisdom Who beat the drum of deathlessness.
“They make the realm of Māra shudder; They make the māras shake
They lead to enlightenment Countless millions of māras.
“They overcome their opponents. They defeat the tīrthikas
They shake the entire earth With its mountains and oceans.
“The great leaders through many transformations Manifest miraculous manifestations of the body
The great wise ones display Inconceivable miracles.
“They shake millions of realms As numerous as the Ganges sands
They defeat the māras And are greatly famed buddhas.
“They manifest trees Adorned with jewels
Aromatic and beautiful, Bearing flowers and fruits.
“Those heroes emanate Delightful mansions, Palaces and pinnacled halls, And beautiful lotus ponds
“Filled with water that has the eight qualities, That is clear, cool, and unstained
Those who drink that water Cease yearning for the three existences.
“They become irreversible, Those who drink that supreme water
Through supreme wisdom They become supreme buddhas.
“Know that they enter The supreme way of peace
Those who do not know that way, Those focused on perceptions, will perish.
“The beings who follow that way, And those who depend upon them
Will fall into the great terror Of unendurable Avīci.
“The terrible sufferings there Are beyond description
But I and the bodhisattvas, The protectors, know them.
“They doubt the Dharma, Which is profound and difficult to see
It is not on the level of fools, Those who remain focused on perceptions.
They are all of them seen in The supreme buddha realms.
“The manifestations of displays, Of appearances of many forms
“All the appearances of manifested forms That are in every buddha real
Are all revealed here by bodhisattvas With great miraculous powers.
“Those great heroes with great strength Wear the armor of the great Dharma
They strike with the blows Of the great vajra of the meaning of emptiness.
“Many thousands of millions of light rays As numerous as the sands in the Gange
Are radiated from their bodies And they illuminate the world.
“They find no pleasure in women And have no desire for them
Those conceptions have been destroyed Naturally with their conceptions of women.
“Wherever those heroes are present, Those buddha realms are not empty
How could the māras and evil ones Create an obstacle for them?
“Those who remain in fabricated views Displease a multitude of buddhas
Those who are based upon maliciousness Maintain their desires and attachments.
“All of those who maintain those views Should be known to be māras
But those māras and evil ones Cannot cause them an obstacle. {i
“All of those who maintain those views Should be known to be māras
But those māras and evil onesCannot cause them an obstacle. {i
“When all conceptualization has ceased They do not relapse into conceptualization
That is how one should know wisdom to be, The inconceivable wisdom of buddhahood.
“They see the past, the future, And also the present
Phenomena are revealed in that way, But there is nothing to be revealed.
“They do not know through knowledge. They are not despondent because of no knowledge
When knowledge and no knowledge have been examined That is what is said to be ‘the knowledge of buddhahood.’
The bodhisattvas know Communication, words, and terms
And they accomplish immeasurable, Inconceivable benefits for beings.
“In order for a concept to be known, It is taught through grasping
The non-grasping of a concept Is taught for the sake of detachment.
“That which is detachment is taught To be detachment from conceptions
As the nature of conceptions is known, There will be no conceptions.
“When someone has the conception ‘I must eliminate this conception,
They cause conceptions to increase, And they will not be free from conceptions.
“For whom has this conception arisen? Who has made this conception arise
Who perceives this conception? Who ends this conception?
“When a conception arises for anyone, Even a buddha could not find any such phenomenon
Contemplate the meaning of this And there will be no conception.
“When does a conception arise? For whom does the conception appear
How does liberation arise In the process of the mind?
“When liberation is experienced, All thoughts become nonthought
When thoughts become nonthought, At that time there is nonthought.
“When one is on the level of thoughts, Having thus contemplated
All thoughts are eliminated And there is nonthought.
“This is the ripening of good qualities, Which is seen without mentation
“This is the ripening of good qualities, Which is seen without mentation
And the thoughts of all beingsAre known in a single instant.
“As beings are, so are their thoughts; As are their thoughts, so are the jinas
The inconceivable Buddha Has taught these thoughts.
“When will thoughts cease for those Who think of being alone in solitude
When they do not think that thought Then all thoughts will cease to be.
“When it comes to the time of death And their thoughts are continuing
Their consciousness will follow the thoughts And they will not be free from thought.
“If a man retains the concept of a woman, His desire will continue to arise
If this concept has ceased He will not be stained by desire.
“This thought is a great thought; It is the unsurpassable thought of the Dharma
Through this thought of the Dharma There will be a continuity of correct thoughts.
“Through incorrect thought There will be numerous, countless thoughts
And though one thinks for a very long time There will still be no cessation to thinking.
“When someone has the thought of a name, In that cessation there is no wisdom
There is no cessation in the knowledge of a word— That is the nature of cessation.
“Through words, speech, and communication Phenomena are taught using the term cessation
Between phenomena there is no distinction, And through knowing that there is cessation;
“Even if it is explained for ten million eons That they are unproduced and unceasing
Without attributes and without characteristics, They are taught to be without attributes.
“When all existents have ceased to exist And they remain in nonexistence
Existence is not taught to be other than nonexistence, And nonexistence is not taught to be other than existence.
“The teaching of nonexistence Is given through the word nonexistence
But not even all the buddhas Can see nonexistence.
“That which exists is taught As this nonexistence of all that exists
Knowing existents in this way, They are taught to be nonexistent.
“There is no one whomsoever Who can connect with this nonexistence
The connection with this nonexistence Results in a teaching that is one of conventions.
“The ones who have in their mind the thought ‘I shall become a buddha in this world,
Will not be afflicted by craving for existence, And those wise ones will attain enlightenment.
“The ones who have in their mind the thought ‘I shall become a buddha in this world
Will not be afflicted by craving for existence, And those wise ones will attain enlightenment.
“The bodhisattvas in meditation Do not long for any phenomenon
When nothing is apprehended, That is called enlightenment.
“There are many who say, ‘I am in a state of enlightenment
But not knowing this approach They are far from buddhahood’s enlightenment.
“The Dharma that is taught through words Is entirely composite and empty
The nature of these words Is profound, subtle, and difficult to see.
“It is through great higher cognition That the teaching of this sūtra is given
It is taught by all the buddhas For the sake of the bodhisattvas.
“Remedies defeat However many kleśas they have
Remaining in higher cognition, They cultivate miraculous powers.
“They maintain the knowledge of contemplation And then that knowledge also ceases
There is an insatiable acquisition Of inconceivable, immeasurable wisdom.
“Their samādhi and miraculous actions Are devoid of mentation
Such is the ripening of these heroes Who are always in a state of meditation.
“With these ripened miraculous powers They go to millions of realm
And they see those who are the illumination of the worlds, Who are as numerous as the sands of the Ganges.
“Their births and their deaths Are the processes of their minds
They have attained power over their minds And their bodies are bright.
“The Buddha’s śrāvakas who maintain The miraculous powers they have cultivate
Do not even approach a sixteenth fraction Of the miraculous activities free of mentation.
“All the devas are unable To know their thoughts. Only the lords of the worlds, And those who are equal to them, can do so.
They do not have evident aging And thus have no suffering or death.
“They do not become bald And their hair does not become white
“They do not have doubt or mistrust And they have no uncertainty
Day and night they seek for Thousands of millions of sūtras.
Day and night they seek forThousands of millions of sūtras.
“All their propensities For the kleśas are eliminated
They always have an equal mind Toward all beings.
“They teach quintillions of samādhis Throughout the ten directions
Without respite they answer Thousand of millions of questions.
“The concept of male, the concept of female, And all other concepts have ceased
They remain in the recognition of nonexistence And they teach that which is certain and true.
“With completely pure wisdom They teach the Dharma correctly
They are dedicated to proclaiming the Dharma, And are in the domain of samādhi and wisdom.
“Though they practice dhyāna, They do not remain in existence
Their words are not meaningless; Their teaching of the Dharma is fruitful.
“Those who delight in this sūtra Will easily become human
Avoid all disadvantageous existences, And repay the kindness of all the buddhas.
“Those who possess one verse Of this precious sūtr
Will abandon saṃsāra For countless eons.
“Those who delight in this sūtra Are seen by all the buddhas
They will serve the buddhas And quickly attain enlightenment.
“Those who delight in this sūtra, They will have no doubt or uncertainty Concerning the entire Dharma, And they are near to nirvāṇa.
“They will see a great hero, A tathāgata on Gṛdhrakūṭa
All the buddhas will give them prophecies And they will appear to be compassionate jinas.
“Those who follow this sūtra In this time of destructio
Will see Buddha Maitreya And attain excellent patience.
“They will remain at the summit of existence, The inconceivable summit of existence
And at that inconceivable summit They will know no doubt.
“They will not have any doubt at all, Not even an atom of doubt
As they have eliminated every atom of doubt, Enlightenment will not be difficult to attain.
“In the terrifying age of destruction They will undergo hardship
Train in this precious sūtra, And have an unceasing eloquence.
“They will promulgate this sūtra And will guard the treasure of the buddhas
This is an offering to all the buddhas, An inconceivable offering of the Dharma.
“Those who maintain this sūtra During the cruel age of destructio
Will without difficulty attain wisdom, The inconceivable wisdom of buddhahood.
“Those who received this sūtra From the buddhas of the pas
Will come into possession of it And promulgate it in the age of destruction.
In the presence of lords of the world In millions of buddha realms.
“Their voices will proclaim The conduct of the Śākya lio
“And in the presence of the buddhas They will always roar the lion’s roa
With an endless confidence of speech, Teaching the enlightenment of buddhahood.
They will protect this enlightenment During the terrifying age of destruction.
“Those who have been prophesied by the Buddha Will be born into the Ikṣvāku family
“Their bodies will be perfect, Adorned by the primary signs of a great being
They will send emanations To make homage to millions of buddhas.
“There will be the manifestation Of golden, illusory flowers
And flowers made of beryl, Of crystal, and of silver,
“And every kind of jewel Appearing from their hands
Which they will scatter toward the buddhas In seeking the path to enlightenment.
“Various kinds of offerings, And perfectly created music
As numerous as the Ganges sands, Will be emitted from the pores of their bodies.
“The countless millions of beings Who hear that musi
Will progress irreversibly toward Buddhahood’s highest wisdom.
“Those millions of buddhas Recite countless praise
And their sound is heard Within countless realms.
“For those who hear that sound All their conceptualization ceases
When their conceptualization has ceased They will see endless buddhas.
nlightenment will not be difficult to attain.
When their conceptualization has ceasedThey will see endless buddhas.
“With that kind of wisdom They will practice bodhisattva conduct
They will benefit all beings And become jinas who benefit others.
“Those who possess this samādhi Are wise ones who will obtai
These benefits and qualities, And also countless others.
“Even a female who hears This sūtra and retains a single vers
Will change from having a female existence And will become a dharmabhāṇaka.
“She will never again afterward Have a female existence
And will always be handsome And adorned by the primary signs of a great being.
“They will all come to possess These supreme qualitie
Described in this supreme sūtra, And they will quickly attain enlightenment.
“Having obtained this sūtra, Which is the domain of all the buddhas
Throughout all their lifetimes They will always be without fear.
“Teaching this samādhi, this peace Is the creation of bodhisattvas
Whoever wishes to attain enlightenment Should give the teaching of this sūtra.
“They will be close to the lords of sages And will be close to buddhahood’s enlightenment
They will before long attain This level of peace and meditation.
“The bodhisattvas, the heroes, Always remain in this enlightenment
They see millions of buddhas As numerous as the Ganges sands.
And obtain the peace of this stainless samādhi.
“They will become cakravartin kings who rule the world, See stainless buddhas who have minds of perfect peace
Praise those lords of the worlds with hundreds of verses
“They will make unequaled offerings to those guides Who have perfect, great fame and are supreme among humans and devas
And they will cast aside the kingdom like spittle, And pure, perfectly pure, will practice celibacy.
“They will enter homelessness in the Sage’s teaching And obtain the peace of this stainless samādhi
They will have friendly speech with gentle words, And become empowered and wise in teaching a million sūtras.
And obtain the peace of this stainless samādhi
They will have friendly speech with gentle words, And become empowered and wise in teaching a million sūtras.
“Having attained this samādhi they will teach it to many beings: Empty and without attributes, the perfect attainment of peace
The perfect and unimpeded practice of the Dharma of complete peace, The empty nature that is constant, stainless peacefulness.
“They have profound realization, continuous endless realization, A vast realization, a realization that is incalculably beneficial
Having attained profound peace, this samādhi, They will become an illumination for all worlds.
“Having attained this peace, this stainless samādhi, They will be continually pure in celibacy
Unsullied, always free of the kleśas, And lead millions of other beings to be the same.
“Having attained this peace, this stainless samādhi, They will have exceedingly sharp wisdom, supreme wisdom
They will gain an ocean of learning and always have infinite understanding, Virtuous speech, excellent understanding, and knowledge of the instructions.
“Having attained this peace, this stainless samādhi, They will gain skill in works and skill in the arts
Skill in healing and likewise skill in herbs. In everything they will be constant and perfect.
“Having attained this peace, this stainless samādhi, They will be perfect and completely skilled In poetry, treatises, comedy, music, song, and dance
Always becoming masters of these in this world.
“Having attained this peace, this stainless samādhi, Such people will be those who always have a retinue. They will not cause division, but will always keep harmonious unity And practice the supreme, highest, peaceful bodhisattva conduct.
“Having attained this peace, this stainless samādhi, Those wise people will never have Sorrow, pain, or mental anguish
And will at all times be free of illness.
“Having attained this peace, this stainless samādhi, In this human world they will not have any illness, No physical pain, nor likewise mental pain, No toothache, and similarly no headache.
No toothache, and similarly no headache.
“Having attained this peace, this stainless samādhi
They will never have any illness occur
None of the various sicknesses of the mortal world, Whether physical illness or likewise mental illness.
Whether they are the various kinds of mental afflictions Or the various kinds of physical illnesses.
They will never have the many different kinds of afflictions
Just as space, the air, is undefiled, Has a pure nature, and is vast and bright
In the same way their minds will be completely pure.
Just as moonlight, and likewise sunlight, too, Are pure, ungraspable, and radiant
In the same way their minds will be bright.
“Just as it is not easy, using pigments, To paint various forms in the air
In the same way it is not easy to create pictures in the mind Of those who remain in this stainless samādhi of peace.
“Just as the wind blows in the four directions, Going in every direction without impediment
Their continuum of mind is like the wind, Moving unimpeded, without attachment, throughout the world.
“One may be able to catch the wind with a net, One may be able to bind the wind with a noose
But it is not so easy to know the mind of someone Who has meditated on this stainless samādhi of peace.
“One may be able to catch a reflection on water, And obtain from it a bowl of sesame oil
But it is not so easy to know the mind of someone Who has meditated on this stainless samādhi of peace.
“Someone may be able to catch in their hands The lightning that flashes from the thundering clouds
But it is not so easy to know the extent of the mind of someone Who has meditated on this stainless samādhi of peace.
Who has meditated on this stainless samādhi of peace.
“One may be able to know the languages of all beings, The beings in the buddha realms in the ten directions
But it is not so easy to know the heights of the mind Of bodhisattvas who have attained this samādhi.
“When they have attained this stainless samādhi of peace They will have no kleśas and be undefiled
Those who have attained this samādhi of peace Will never again have attachment to the three existences.
“Having attained this stainless samādhi of peace, They have no longing for objects of desire, no longing for forms
They have no longing for women and have an unconfused mind. They are peaceful, completely peaceful, and undefiled.
“Having attained this stainless samādhi of peace, They have no longing for sons, no longing for daughters
They have no longing for a wife, and no longing for attendants. Their conduct is peaceful and they are undefiled.
“They have no longing for gold and no longing for wealth. They have no longing for higher rebirth and no attachment to money and jewels
They have a completely pure mind and are free of thought. That is the uniqueness of this attainment of samādhi.
“They do not practice celibacy for a higher rebirth. The wise are not generous out of yearning for a higher rebirth
Bodhisattvas are generous because they desire enlightenment. That is the uniqueness of this attainment of samādhi.
Do not practice asceticism in order to have a kingdom
Nor in order to become sovereign over the three existences. They benefit many beings because they long for enlightenment.
“Those who accomplish this stainless samādh
And they have no longing for food and no longing for clothes. That is the uniqueness of this attainment of samādhi. {i
“They have no longing for songs and no longing for dance, They have no longing for incense and no longing for drink
“They have no longing for eyes and no longing for ears, They have no longing for a nose and no longing for a tongue
And they have no longing for a body and no longing for a mind. That is the uniqueness of this attainment of samādhi. {ii
“They have no longing for home and no longing for the forest, They have no longing for a monastery and no longing for a village
And they have no longing for a region and no longing for a town. That is the uniqueness of this attainment of samādhi. {iii
And they have no longing for a region and no longing for a town. That is the uniqueness of this attainment of samādhi. {iii
“They have no longing for home and no longing for the forest, They have no longing for a monastery and no longing for a villag
“They have no longing for generosity and no longing for conduct, They have no longing for patience and no longing for diligence
And they have no longing for meditation and no longing for wisdom. That is the uniqueness of this attainment of samādhi. {iv
“They have no longing for being and no longing for life, They have no longing for the Buddha and no longing for the Dharma
And they have no longing for the Saṅgha and no longing for enlightenment. That is the uniqueness of this attainment of samādhi. {v
“They have no longing for existence and no longing for nonexistence, They have no longing for the middle way and no longing for the extremes
And they have no longing for everything and no longing for nothing. That is the uniqueness of this attainment of samādhi. {vi
“When they have attained this stainless samādhi of peace, Desire can never cause them harm
Those who yearn for women have confused minds And they know that this is the nature of desire.
“When they have attained this stainless samādhi of peace, Anger can never cause them harm
The wise ones destroy malice; Through love they completely overcome anger.
“Ignorance can never cause them harm; Wisdom eliminates ignorance and stupidity
They attain measureless wisdom free of darkness. These qualities from attaining samādhi are measureless.
“Desire is always overcome by repulsiveness. Anger is constantly defeated by love
Wisdom cuts through ignorance, the net of the kleśas. Those who have attained samādhi are majestic to the whole world.
“Sleep can never cause them harm. They eliminate the various subsidiary kleśas
They are undefiled and liberated. These qualities from attaining samādhi are measureless.
“Desire can never cause harm To the bodhisattvas who possess this samādhi
They delight always in generosity: They gives away their possessions and give happiness.
They delight always in generosity: They gives away their possessions and give happiness.
At all times they are in the possession of strength. There is no one who is their equal in the world.
“The bodhisattvas who possess this samādhi Possess power that is beyond compare
“They become cakravartins in this world. They come to Jambudvīpa as the sovereign of human
And many beings make offerings to them, And in particular they attain the unique wisdom free of darkness.
“Such bodhisattvas become the leaders in a special, jewellike family. They have great wealth and are lords over many people
They have horses, elephants, and perfect chariots to ride upon. They have abundant gold and precious jewels.
“Those who have faith in the supreme wisdom of the Buddha, They are called the jewellike families in Jambudvīpa
They are born there into special, jewellike families And they benefit a multitude of their kin.
“They carefully engender faith in those Who are of families in Jambudvīpa who have no faith
They bring a multitude of beings to aspire to enlightenment, And they become self-arisen buddhas, supreme jinas.
“They attain unequaled, highest enlightenment And turn the unequaled Dharma wheel in buddha realms
Those who then know that Dharma wheel Will all remain in the birthlessness of phenomena.
“The bodhisattvas will perform many activities. Beings will constantly make offerings to them
They will constantly accomplish unequaled benefit. They will remove the darkness from the eyes of beings. 
“The bodhisattvas, joyous, with loving minds And unstained, will become buddhas
Wherever those bodhisattvas are present They will create an immeasurable benefit for beings.
“They will protect correct conduct and have matchless celibacy. They will meditate on samādhi for many endless eons
They will constantly have certainty in dhyāna and liberation. Those bodhisattvas will be the sons of the buddhas.
They will meditate on samādhi for many endless eons
They will constantly have certainty in dhyāna and liberation. Those bodhisattvas will be the sons of the buddhas.
“They always practice the bases of miraculous powers, And they go to various infinite realms
They listen to the Dharma taught by the sugatas And, having the power of retention, they remember everything.
“Those bodhisattvas who have the power of retention Teach endless, countless sūtras
Those bodhisattvas who have the power of retention Accomplish countless benefits for beings.
“They know the deaths and rebirths And the coming and going of beings
What kind of actions they do, And the ripening of their karma.
“In that transference of karma There are not even atoms to be found
Those greatly famous bodhisattvas Know, too, that this is so.
“Emptiness is the supreme Dwelling of the great beings
They establish countless millions Of beings in the great yāna.
“When they are teaching They have no concept of beings
The bodhisattvas teach Without engaging in phenomena.
“When they teach the Dharma There is no apprehending of an object
They reside in emptiness, Established in enduring wisdom.
“When someone has been taught this samādhi, In which all the teachers reside
No conceptions arise in him, He naturally has no conceptions about women.
“When conceptions of women have ceased, He sits at the Bodhimaṇḍa
Once he has sat at the Bodhimaṇḍa The conceptions of Māra cease.
“The wise one does not see Māra and Māra’s army
And neither does he see The three daughters of Māra.
“Once he is seated upon the Bodhimaṇḍa, All his conceptions are eliminated
Once all his conceptions are eliminated This entire world is shaken.
“So, too, are all the worlds in the ten directions With their Sumerus and their oceans
And this is known By all the beings in the ten directions.
“So, too, are all the worlds in the ten directions With their Sumerus and their oceans
And this is known By all the beings in the ten directions.
“This shaking of the world Is the miracle of the bodhisattva
It is shaken six times When he attains supreme enlightenment.
“All the composite phenomena there are, And all the noncomposite phenomena
All phenomena are understood That are taught by the word phenomena.
“There is nothing there to be understood, And that lion’s roar arises
Knowing this process of arising, He becomes an illuminating buddha.
“Phenomena appear dependently. Phenomena are produced dependently
The wise ones know the entirety Of the dependence of phenomena.
“They know the development of all phenomena. They have complete understanding through emptiness
They have wisdom concerning states of existence. They have complete understanding of all phenomena.
On seeking for these states of existence, The bodhisattva does not find them
That is the same as the inconceivable knowledge Of all the buddhas concerning states of existence.
“The one who has that complete knowledge Knows all states of existence
Knowing the characteristic of the true Dharma, He brings to an end all illusions.
“Knowing the characteristic of the true Dharma, He gazes upon all the realms
Having gazed upon all the realms, He seats himself at the Bodhimaṇḍa. {i
“Having sat at the Bodhimaṇḍa, There is the sound of the lion’s roar
Which thus resounds throughout Countless, innumerable millions of realms.
“All those greatly renowned buddha heroes Also cause those realms to shake
The leader of beings guides beings In the way that they are to be guided.
“Having reached the highest enlightenment, He rises from the Bodhimaṇḍa
He guides the countless, innumerable beings Who are to be guided.
“Then the Buddha emanates Infinite buddha emanations
These buddha emanations go To thousands of millions of realms.
“They lead countless millions Of beings to the highest enlightenment
He teaches the supreme Dharma For the benefit of all beings.
He teaches the supreme DharmaFor the benefit of all beings.
“That kind of great wisdom Is the inconceivable wisdom of a buddha
Therefore develop the aspiration, The supreme aspiration to enlightenment.
“Develop veneration for those with the highest qualities: The Buddha, the Dharma, and the Saṅgha
And the heroes, the bodhisattvas, Who seek for the highest enlightenment.
“Without becoming disheartened, Venerate them unflaggingly
And become before long An illuminating buddha.
“Those bodhisattvas who come here From thousands of realm
See the lamp of the world Teaching the supreme Dharma.
“Those great heroes throw down Great jewels for the Guide
And in order to attain enlightenment They cast down coral tree flowers.
“They adorn this realm, The highest buddha realm
All of the ten directions Are covered with networks of jewels.
“They string up flags And erect millions of banners
And they adorn this realm With endless adornments.
“They create countless, beautiful Pinnacled halls with balconies, Upper chambers, and towers Adorned with every jewel.
“They create palaces with crescents, Round windows and aviaries, Incense, banners, and vases, And adorned with many jewels.
“The aroma of incense Spreads through this buddha realm
That delightful incense Pervades a billion realms.
“When it has spread through them A rain of incense falls
Those who smell that incense Become buddhas, guides.
“They cast away the pain of desire. They do not have anger and craving
The net of ignorance is destroyed And all darkness comes to an end.
“There they attain the miraculous powers, And the strengths, powers, and aspects of enlightenment
They attain the dhyānas and the liberations And become worthy of offerings.
Of beings to the highest enlightenment
And the strengths, powers, and aspects of enlightenment
They attain the dhyānas and the liberationsAnd become worthy of offerings.
“Fifty million beautiful Seats are arranged
Draped with millions of cloths And nets of jewels.
“The bodhisattvas, the famous heroes, Are gathered there upon those seats
They shine with the primary signs And also with the secondary signs.
“This entire buddha realm Is adorned by trees made of jewels
There are emanated ponds that are filled With water that has the eight qualities.
“Those on the banks of those pools Who drink from their water
Are freed from all craving And become worthy of veneration by the world.
“In other realms, too, Bodhisattvas gather
They praise the Buddha, The lion of the Śākyas, the protector.
“Those who hear that praise Become guides of the worlds
Here I have described This sūtra’s inconceivable benefits.
“Countless millions of lotuses Are emanated, which have Petals made of gold, And pericarps of uragasāra.
“They have stems of beryl, They have leaves of crystal
They have stamens of emerald, And have beautifully appeared.
“They have an inconceivable aroma That they continuously emit
The inconceivable aroma of the lotuses Fills millions of realms. {i
“Those who smell that aroma That they delightfully emanat
Will have delight in their minds And all their illnesses will cease.
“Desire, anger, and ignorance Will cease without trace
When those three faults have ceased in them They will be buddhas who bestow happiness.
“From them are emitted sounds, Countless numbers of the word buddha
And from them also the words dharma and saṅgha emanate everywhere,
“And also the words emptiness, Absence of attributes, and absence of aspiration
The progress of the numerous millions of beings Who hear them becomes irreversible.
Who hear them becomes irreversible.
“These words that are emanated Also reach millions of realms
They establish countless millions Of beings in this buddha wisdom.
“The birds that are peacocks, Avadavats, and partridge
Also sing out a word, The unsurpassable word buddha.
“The birds that are snipes, Mynas, cranes, and cuckoo
Also sing out a word, The inconceivable word dharma. {i
“The birds that are parrots, geese, Ducks, shelducks, and swan
Also sing out a word, The unsurpassable word saṅgha. {ii
“All the birds that there are In the deva or the human world
Are continuously singing Praises of the Three Jewels. {iii
“Trees made of jewels Are manifested in this realm
Those delightful jewel trees Are uniquely beautiful.
“On all those trees are hung Every kind of ornament
They have manifested in this realm Through the power of the Buddha.
“This display does not exist Anywhere in any realm. This unique, superior sight Is not to be seen in this realm.
“This is what has been taught By the Śākya lion, the protector
The greatly famed bodhisattvas Have no doubt in that wisdom.
“They comprehend that highest point. Their way is inconceivable
Their wisdom increases Like an ocean into which rivers flow.
“They have no final end. It is like drinking an ocean
This is the inconceivable way Of the bodhisattvas that has been taught.
“The greatly famed bodhisattvas, The heroes, are at the highest point
They give forth aspects of speech That are as numerous as the Ganges sands.
“There is such inconceivable speech But the bodhisattvas have no pride
They have eliminated pride And are near to enlightenment,
“They will not ruin their correct conduct Even for the sake of their life
The bodhisattvas are resolute And behave immaculately.
The bodhisattvas are resolute And behave immaculately.
“They do not become ruined By any concept of desire
They have eliminated all conceptions And they have countless samādhis.
“They practice them while in meditation Yet have no attachment to those samādhis
They have no clinging, they are attentive, And they have no attachment to the world.
“When they leave this world They go to Sukhāvatī
When they have arrived there They see Buddha Amitābha.
“Those bodhisattva heroes Are adorned by the primary signs
They have reached the domain of the five higher cognitions, Great wisdom, and the retentions.
“They go to millions of realms And bow down to the feet of the buddhas
Shining, they travel To countless buddha realms.
“They have eliminated all faults And are purified of all kleśas
With the kleśas completely eradicated They are one lifetime from becoming a jina.
“They will not go to the lower realms. From that realm of humans All rebirth into the lower realms Has been eradicated in that realm.
“Do not doubt what has been revealed Concerning that protector, The Lord of the World, Amitābha, And you will go to Sukhāvatī.
“A woman who has faith on hearing The praise of this precious sūtr
Will soon become a superior wise man Who miraculously goes to billions of realms.
“Many offerings of innumerable kinds, Offered continuously to supreme beings Within the appearance of a quintillion realms
Cannot equal a fraction of a loving mind.
“Those who always practice correct conduct and samādhi, And also countless dhyānas and liberations
Who always practice emptiness devoid of attributes— They will soon become a sugata in the world.
“The bodhisattvas who maintain the aggregate of correct conduct Make the greatest, most special offering to me
Those who maintain the aspiration to enlightenment in the time of degeneration Are continuously making an offering to all the buddhas.
Are continuously making an offering to all the buddhas.
“The bodhisattvas in the dreadful time of degeneration Who protect this supreme Dharma taught by the sugatas
Are my offspring and protectors of the Dharma in the later times. They have been entrusted by ten billion buddhas.”
Conclusion of the thirty-third chapter, “The Benefits of Possessing the Sūtra.
Then the Bhagavān said to the youth Candraprabha
“Young man, bodhisattva mahāsattvas who wish for this samādhi
and wish to attain quickly the highest, complete enlightenment of perfect buddhahood
should abide in the absence of attributes and be dedicated to making vast offerings to a present tathāgata or to the stūpa of a tathāgata who has passed into nirvāṇa
“Young man, those bodhisattva mahāsattvas should develop an aspiration focused upon all beings as they wish for this samādhi
And, wishing to attain quickly the highest, complete enlightenment of perfect buddhahood
they should abide in the absence of attributes, without aspiration for the ripening of karma
and use even their own body and life to perform vast actions of making offerings to a present tathāgata or to the stūpa of a tathāgata who has passed into nirvāṇa
the samādhi, the revealed equality of the nature of all phenomena
“With their mind and attention focused on compassion; with a loud, clear voice, elevated and pleasant; and with especially noble vocabulary and a continuity of word
hey should teach extensively to others, propagate, and explai
Why is that
Because, young man, this king of samādhis, the revealed equality of the nature of all phenomena, is the basis and root of the entire Dharma
“Young man, when bodhisattva mahāsattvas who have great compassion an
“Young man, when bodhisattva mahāsattvas who have great compassion an
to others this king of samādhis, the revealed equality of the nature of all phenomena
to the stūpa of a tathāgata who has passed into nirvāṇa
are dedicated to making vast offering
to a present tathāgata o
diligently rely on method
they should teach extensivel
“At that time, young man, those bodhisattva mahāsattvas should abide in the doorways to liberation that are emptiness, the absence of attributes, and the absence of aspiration
and should not apprehend any phenomenon whatsoever
The bodhisattva mahāsattvas who abide in the practice of the samādhi that is free of apprehending will abide in all aspirations
Young man, the bodhisattva mahāsattvas who abide in all aspirations will fulfill all the aspirations of all beings
will quickly attain this samādhi, and will quickly attain the highest, complete enlightenment of perfect buddhahood
“Young man, you should understand this through the following teaching
a sugata, a knower of the world, an unsurpassable guide who tamed beings
at that time and in those days
there appeared in the worl
established countless, innumerable beings in the cessation of defilements, in arhatship
He also established countless, innumerable beings in irreversible progress toward the highest, complete enlightenment of perfect buddhahood and then passed into nirvāṇa
and having established them in that state, he passed into nirvāṇa
the the Bhagavān, the tathāgata, the arhat
“Young man, in the past, uncountable, vast, immeasurable, inconceivable, innumerable countless eons ago
a teacher of devas and humans, a buddha, and a bhagavān
Ghoṣadatta
the perfectly enlightened Buddh
who was perfect in wisdom and conduct
Ghoṣadatt
“Young man, at that time and in those days, in Jambudvīpa there was a king named Śrīghoṣa
In order to make offerings to the Tathāgata who had passed into nirvāṇ
“Young man, at that time, within that assembly there was a bodhisattva mahāsattva named Kṣemadatta
“Young man, in that way King Śrīghoṣa made offerings to the stūpas that contained the relics of the Tathāgata
Then he gathered eighty quintillion bodhisattva
and dedicated himself to making offerings of all the most pleasing necessities to those bodhisattvas
“Every one of all those bodhisattva mahāsattvas was a dharmabhāṇaka
They had uninterrupted eloquence, the attainment of samādhi, and the attainment of unimpeded retention
They were teachers of the pure Dharma, and had attained the perfection of the supreme powers of a bodhisattva
“Young man, at that time, King Śrīghoṣa made a request to that great assembly of bodhisattvas
He was a young boy with black hair, in the first stage of youth
He had become a youth who did not indulge in desires, but was a young celibate, who had been keeping the vow for a year
combining the six perfections, accomplish the great retention of the bodhisattva piṭak
skill in methods, and unimpeded power and guidance
He made a request to those bodhisattva mahāsattvas that he might
he offered eighty-four quintillio
In the same wa
musical instruments, percussion instruments, flowers, incense offerings, perfumes
garlands, ointments, powders, robes, parasols, banners, and flag
he built eighty-four quintillion stūpas that contained the relics of the Tathāgat
to each of those stūpas
and he presented eighty-four quintillion light
That evening he lit a quintillion lights before the stūpas that contained the relics of the Tathāgata
He also swept clean the circumambulation walkway, moistened and washed it
scattered flowers upon it, and arranged various seats
King Śrīghoṣa then came there accompanied by his harem and the people of the villages, towns, and regions
Holding musical instruments, percussion instruments, cymbals, flowers, incense, perfumes, garlands, ointments, powders, robes, parasols, banners, and flags
they made offerings to the stūpa, which contained the relics of the Tathāgata
Afterwards, in order to hear the Dharma, accompanied by his harem of queens, he ascended to the roof of the palace
Gatherings of devas and humans also assembled in order to hear the Dharma
“The bodhisattva Kṣemadatta saw them and the lights from the numerous quintillions of offered lamps that shone as one pervading radiance
Knowing that many devas and humans had assembled in order to hear the Dharma
he thought, ‘I have entered the Mahāyāna, and because I now long for this samādhi I shall make an offering to the Tathāgata
It will be such an offering to the Tathāgata that it will amaze the worlds of devas, humans, and asuras
and bring them joy, delight, pleasure, and happiness, and they will obtain the light of the Dharma
“The bodhisattva mahāsattva Kṣemadatta was joyful and happy
and knowing that the great assembly of people had gathered to hear the Dharma
that evening he sat in front of the Tathāgata’s stūpa, bound his right hand in cotton, and immersed it in sesame oil
Having immersed it in sesame oil he set it alight
“At this point the bodhisattva mahāsattva Kṣemadatta developed the supreme intention
He developed the supreme intention for the highest, complete enlightenment and
seeking complete enlightenment, although his right hand was burning brightly, his mind and the expression of his face remained unchanged
“Young man, as the bodhisattva mahāsattva Kṣemadatta’s right hand burned brightly
and was transformed into a single flame, at that time this great earth shook
The light from his burning right hand made that of the many quintillions of offering lamps seem dark
and its great illumination spread in all directions, its radiance illuminating and pervading every direction
“He became joyful and happy
samādhi, the revealed equality of the nature of all phenomen
and with a gentle and pleasing voice, a uniquely superior vocabulary, and a continuity of words and letters
so that the entire assembly understood it in detail
he taught th
“The one thousand two hundred Trāyastriṃśa devas assembled there to listen to the Dharma were made joyous and happy and made various divine offerings
The apsarases engaged in singing divine songs
“King Śrīghoṣa, who was keeping the eight poṣadha vows, was in the middle of his harem of queens, with his court before him, seated on the roof of his palace
He saw that the bodhisattva mahāsattva Kṣemadatta’s hand was burning and outshining all other lights
creating a brightness that transcended the lights of devas and the lights of humans
creating a brightness that transcended the lights of devas and the lights of humans
“He thought, ‘This bodhisattva mahāsattva has attained great higher cognition,
and felt intense joy, faith, veneration, and reverence for the bodhisattva mahāsattva Kṣemadatta
Supported by his great accumulation of merit and roots of merit he leapt from the roof of the palace
ogether with his harem of eighty queens
He leapt because of his joy on having seen the bodhisattva mahāsattva Kṣemadatta
“Because of the roots of merit that were produced by his veneration, he and his retinue were caught b
devas, nāgas, yakṣas, gandharvas, asuras, garūḍas, kiṃnaras, and mahoragas
After they had been caught by devas, nāgas, yakṣas, gandharvas, asuras, garūḍas, kiṃnaras, and mahoragas
King Śrīghoṣa and his retinue, even though they had jumped from a building that was a hundred thousand cubits high, were physically unharmed, mentally unharmed, and were not unnerved
Then the king, together with the great assembly of people, weeping and shedding tears, came before the bodhisattva mahāsattva Kṣemadatta
“Young man, the bodhisattva mahāsattva Kṣemadatta saw King Śrīghoṣa, and having seen him asked
Great king, why are you and this great assembly of people here before me crying out loudly
wailing, sorrowful, and weeping?
All of them cried out loudly and wailed
“King Śrīghoṣa extended both his hands
and together with the great assembly of people saw the bodhisattva mahāsattva Kṣemadatta’s hand on fire and burning brightly
The one with great wisdom, the learned one, The dharmabhāṇaka
has lost a limb.
Because they have seen that Kṣemadatta
“King Śrīghoṣa spoke these verses to the bodhisattva mahāsattva Kṣemadatta: “ ‘These beings have cried ou
“ ‘Seeing that this body That emits this brilliant ligh
Has had a hand destroyed, I also feel great suffering.
“ ‘The light from your burning hand Has shone into the ten directions
The divine light you have emitted Has obscured the light of these lamps.
“ ‘This earth has been shaken And you are not disheartened
There arose in me the thought, “That is no ordinary wise man.”
“ ‘I leapt a hundred thousand cubits From the roof of my palace
Together with my harem of queens
But my body was not harmed.
“ ‘How excellent your wonderful wisdom! How excellent your unsurpassable mind
How excellent your dedicated diligence! How excellent your great aspiration!
“ ‘Your hand is burning But you are not disturbed
You are happy and joyous And again teach the Dharma.
Or Sumeru, the king of mountains.
As the moon that is full, Or the sun high in the sky
“ ‘Worthy friend, you are as beautifu
“ ‘Wise one, may I also Fulfill such a prayer
Rejecting my care for the body I will accomplish benefit for beings.
“ ‘I delight in joy for the Dharma; My happiness in that is inconceivable
That you have lost a limb Causes me the highest suffering.’
“Kṣemadatta, through devas and nāgas, Made offerings to the kin
And he spoke these verses With infinite confidence:
“ ‘Someone who has no hand Is not the one who lacks a limb
Someone who has no correct conduct Is the one who is lacking a limb.
I have offered to the tathāgatas
The inconceivable recipients of offerings, The ones to whom offerings should be made by all the world.
“ ‘This putrid body of min
The ones to whom offerings should be made by all the world.  
“ ‘Seeking the wisdom of buddhahood I offer to the lords of the world
Infinite billion-world universes Entirely filled with jewels.
But there are other inconceivable offerings
Give away their bodies and their lives.
Those who know that phenomena are empt
“ ‘There are these material offering
“ ‘I shall speak words of truth. Great king, listen to me
All the people gathered here, Understand the meaning of these verses!
“ ‘If it is true that I will become a buddha, One who is revered by the world
May that truth cause this earth To shake in six ways!’
“He spoke those words And the earth shook
Millions of devas were overjoyed, Amazed, and astonished.
“The joyous devas and humans Developed the aspiration for enlightenment
Immeasurable, incalculable numbers Were established in the supreme yāna.
“The benefit accomplished By the bhikṣu Kṣemadatt
Is the unending and inconceivable engagement With the wisdom of the buddhas.
“ ‘If it is true that this phenomenon That is called “hand” does not exist
Then may that truth cause my hand To be instantly restored as it was before!
“ ‘If it is true that this phenomenon Called “Kṣemadatta” does not exist
Though one seeks for it in the ten directions, It will be not be found, because it is empty.
“ ‘Whatever sound arises, Know it to be empty
Sound is like an echo: Know phenomena to be like that.
“ ‘When there is fearlessness, Emptiness is fully comprehended
Through those words of truth May the entire world not be burned!
“ ‘May all the beings in the three existences, The devas and the humans
All rest in a state of meditation Because of the brilliance of omniscience.
“ ‘All the misfortunes That devas and humans have, May they all come to cessation Through the brilliance of irreversibility!’
“After Kṣemadatta spoke those verses His hand grew back
And Kṣemadatta’s body became Adorned by the primary signs.
His hand grew back
And Kṣemadatta’s body becameAdorned by the primary signs.
“Ten thousand million devas Who were residing in the sk
Threw down at that moment Coral tree flowers upon the bhikṣu.
“Those divine flowers Filled up this world. A quintillion apsarases Engaged in performing songs.
“When Kṣemadatta Emitted these words
Ten thousand million buddhas Witnessed this miracle.
To their bhikṣus and bhikṣuṇīs, Upāsakas and upāsikās:
“In each of their realm
They made his great fame know
“ ‘This bhikṣu Kṣemadatta Is wise and has great might
He burned his hand in order to gain The wisdom of buddhahood.’
“Devas, nāgas, and yakṣas, kiṃnaras and mahoragas
As numerous as the Ganges sands, Were established in the highest enlightenment.”
The Śākya lion, the Buddha, Was on Vulture Peak Mountain
In front of his assembly of bhikṣus The Jina roared this lion’s roar:
For ten thousand million eons I practiced the bodhisattva conduct.
“It is I who was Kṣemadatta And Ajita was Śrīghoṣa
“Countless women, The moment they saw Bhikṣu Kṣemadatta, Ceased being women.
“The Lord of humans prophesied That they would not retur
But that they all would become Self-arisen guides of the world.
Jewels and pearls were spread out As an offering to Kṣemadatta.
“This realm became adorned By a display of every kind of jewel
Filled the buddha realm. Nāgas brought down a rain of pearls As an offering to Kṣemadatta.
Self-arisen guides of the world.
“The wise who have heard this sūtra, The teaching on the disciplines of mendicancy
Should have no cherishing for the body And should study well this Dharma.”
Conclusion of the thirty-fourth chapter, “Kṣemadatta.
Then the Bhagavān said to the youth Candraprabha
“Young man, bodhisattva mahāsattvas who wish for this samādhi, an
wish to attain quickly the highest, complete enlightenment of perfect buddhahood
should plant roots of merit and apply themselves to practicing generosity through the Dharma or generosity through material things
“Those bodhisattva mahāsattvas should dedicate that generosity through four prayers of dedication
“What are the four dedication prayers? The first dedication prayer is
‘I plant the roots of merit of this generosity so that I may attain skills in methods, those skills in methods by which the buddha bhagavāns attained the highest, complete enlightenment of buddhahood.
“Young man, the bodhisattva mahāsattvas dedicate those roots of merit through those four prayers of dedication
“The second dedication prayer is
“The third dedication prayer is
“The fourth dedication prayer is
taking care of them through the Dharma and taking care of them through material things.
‘I plant the roots of merit of this generosity so that I may attain an existence in which I take care of beings, taking care of them in two ways
‘I plant the roots of merit of this generosity so that all may obtain the requisites that sustain life in the world, and so that these requisites may come together for me.
‘I plant the roots of merit of this generosity so that I may listen to those skills in methods from kalyāṇamitras, remember them, understand them, possess them, and recite them, and so that I will always be in the company of those kalyāṇamitras who will attain the highest, complete enlightenment of buddhahood.
“Moreover, young man, bodhisattva mahāsattvas who yearn for this samādhi
and wish to attain quickly the highest, complete enlightenment of perfect buddhahood
whether they are homeless renunciants or householders, should sincerely serve, provide for, and attend upon a bodhisattva mahāsattva who has correct conduct, good qualities, and wisdom
Young man, the bodhisattva mahāsattvas who with the perfect higher motivation yearn for this samādh
and wish to attain quickly the highest, complete enlightenment of perfect buddhahoo
should fearlessly and confidently give even their own flesh and blood so that the dharmabhāṇaka bhikṣu will be healed from his illness
“Young man, this is how that teaching is to be understood
“Young man, in a past countless eon—numerous, incalculable, countless eons ago
at that time and in those days, there was a tathāgata, an arhat, a perfectly enlightened buddha perfect in wisdom and conduct
a sugata, a knower of the world, an unsurpassable guide who tamed beings, a teacher of devas and humans
the Bhagavān Buddha Acintya­praṇidhāna­viśeṣa­samudgata­rāja who had appeared in the world
If that bodhisattva mahāsattva bhikṣu who possesses this samādhi were to become ill, afflicted by a powerful illness
then they should eagerly cure him of the illness with their own flesh and blood
“Young man, before the end of the day on which he attained the highest, complete enlightenment of perfect buddhahood
he manifested incalculable, innumerable buddha emanations and guided countless beings
establishing them in the arhathood in which all outflows have ceased
and he established countless beings in irreversible progress toward the highest, complete enlightenment. And then, before that day had ended, he passed into nirvāṇa
“The Dharma of that Bhagavān who had passed into nirvāṇa remained for a hundred thousand quintillion years
“Young man, in the last five hundred years before the Dharma of Bhagavān Acintya­praṇidhāna­viśeṣa­samudgata­rāja finally came to an end
there were many bhikṣus who held the view of objective existence
They harmed and even killed the bhikṣus who possessed this sūtra
They had no yearning, no aspiration for a sūtra like this and opposed it and attacked it
They had attachment to gain and honor and therefore they killed thousands of bhikṣus who possessed a sūtra like this
“Young man, at that time and in those days, King Jñānabala ruled over Jambudvīpa
He possessed the Dharma and had appeared because of his perfect prayers in previous lifetimes
“Young man, at that time and in those days, in this Jambudvīpa there was a bhikṣu named Bhūtamati who possessed this sūtra
That dharmabhāṇaka went to the king’s palace and became a kalyāṇamitra who was altruistic, was compassionate, and wished to benefit others
The king never tired of gazing upon him and always longed to see him
He came to him for teaching and for discussions on the Dharma
He honored him, asked him questions, obtained answers, and was able to understand what was spoken
“That dharmabhāṇaka bhikṣu was wise in the behavior, conduct, aspirations, natures, and propensities of beings
He knew the extent of the powers, strengths, and diligence of beings. He was wise in natures and propensities
He was wise in implying the truth
He was also wise in giving answers without implied meaning
He had profound eloquence and was wise in the ways of guiding all beings
He spoke sincerely. His face was free of frowns. He remained in a state of greatness of mind
He remained in a state of greatness of mind. He was dedicated to great compassion
He could not be defeated by any opponent
“Young man, at that time and in those days, King Jñānabala’s daughter was sixteen years old and she was beautiful, attractive, and charming
He taught her the virtuous qualities, extolled them, delighted in them, and made her develop them
She had a lovely complexion, and was magnificent. Her name was Jñānāvatī. The bhikṣu Bhūtamati was her ācārya
“Young man, at that time and in those days, the dharmabhāṇaka bhikṣ
developed widespread, black erysipelas on both his thighs, which did not respond to treatment and had no known cure
so that the physicians gave up trying to heal him
King Jñānabala with his harem, sons, daughters, and attendants, on learning that the bhikṣu was ill, wept and shed tears
“Eighty thousand women, the inhabitants of the cities and towns, the people of the kingdom
the people of the market towns and the regions, the astrologers, ministers, and prime ministers, and the doorkeepers and attendants
hearing that the bhikṣu was ill, wept and shed tears and cried, ‘May this bhikṣu not die
“Young man, at that time and in those days, the goddess of King Jñānabala’s family since ancient times
who was always by his side, instructed the king in a dream
saying, ‘Great king, if fresh, unspoiled human blood is applied to this bhikṣu’s erysipelas
and if fresh, untarnished human flesh is prepared with various flavors and given to him to eat, then this bhikṣu will be cured of his illness
When that night had passed and King Jñānabala awoke from his sleep he entered his harem and he described the dream to his harem, saying
‘This is the kind of dream that I have had.
“Young man, none of the women in the harem, the king’s wives, had the fortitude to provide that remedy for the bhikṣu
“Princess Jñānāvatī also dreamed that kind of dream. When she awoke, she went into the harem and described the dream to her circle of mothers
but none of the women had the fortitude to provide that remedy for the bhikṣu
“Then Princess Jñānāvatī became happy, delighted, thrilled, joyful, pleased, and glad, and made this resolution
‘In that case I shall cut from myself the remedy, and as instructed will give him the fresh blood and fresh flesh
I am the youngest and least within the royal household, and my body, speech, and mind are untarnished
I seek untarnished wisdom, and therefore I shall offer my flesh and blood to the untarnished dharmabhāṇaka
so that I may heal this bhikṣu of his illness!
“Then Princess Jñānāvatī returned to her own dwelling and, taking up a sharp knife and with her mind focused on the Dharma, she cut flesh from her own thigh
She prepared it, adding various excellent flavors
Bringing the blood, too, she went to her ācārya and, seated before King Jñānabala
“King Jñānabala then recited these verses to his daughter
As soon as he had eaten it, the bhikṣu’s illness completely vanished and he was entirely cured of his illness
“Then the bhikṣu, not knowing, unaware, and unsuspecting, ate that food
she applied the blood onto the black erysipelas and nourished the bhikṣu with the well-prepared meal
Freed from pain and happy, he taught the Dharm
so that twelve hundred beings from among the harem and the assembled people from the land, towns, and countryside developed the aspiration to highest, complete enlightenment
“ ‘Daughter, from where did you obtain this blood? And from where did you obtain this human flesh
Daughter, by your preparing this food The dharmabhāṇaka has become healthy.
“ ‘Was it from someone slain or who had died that you obtained This flesh prepared with various flavors
Daughter, where did you obtain this blood That has freed him from this evil sickness?’
“The daughter listened to her father’s words And Jñānāvatī then addressed him
With no despondency, she spoke these words: ‘Listen, father, to what I have to say.
“ ‘I too, father, had the dream That was sent by the goddess
Lord of the World, listen to me, And understand its true meaning.
“ ‘That goddess said to me That whoever gives to the bhikṣu The flesh and blood of a human Will cure him of his evil illness.
“ ‘I arose from my bed And I entered the harem
I then related my dream To my superiors, my mothers.
“ ‘I asked the servants who among them Would be able to do this
To make perfectly delicious Human blood and flesh?
“ ‘If that food is given to him And if the blood is applied
The bhikṣu will be freed From this black erysipelas.
“ ‘If we do not use this method, If we do not apply this remedy
This bhikṣu will soon die Because of this illness that he has.
“ ‘What being in the three existences Would not give their flesh and blood
What wise ones on seeing this Would hold fast to their body?
“ ‘Though I told the harem of this, Not even one woman said she would give
The bhikṣu is beloved and he is beloved by me, So I gave him my flesh and blood for the sake of enlightenment.
“ ‘Those who seek enlightenment, peace, and freedom from misery Have no devotion to their body or dependence on it
Of themselves they cherish not even an atom, And are not saddened to give themselves away.
“ ‘When the harem heard those words, They were all perplexed. None of them had the fortitude To take on such an act.
“ ‘When the harem heard those words, They were all perplexed
None of them had the fortitudeTo take on such an act.
“ ‘Then I developed the intention That I would provide the food for the bhikṣu
Cutting off pieces of my own flesh And using for lotion my own blood.
“ ‘I cut into my own thighs And obtained the flesh and blood
I myself cooked the pieces of flesh And added various flavorings.
“ ‘In the presence of my father I gave to the sick bhikṣu The meal of human flesh And the lotion of blood.
“ ‘Lord of men, listen to my words! Sovereign, there not being any human flesh
I cut the flesh from my own thighs, And having cooked it gave it to the dharmabhāṇaka.
“ ‘It was for the sake of the highest enlightenment That I accomplished this great purpose with my body
The bhikṣu is cured and returned to health And I have created immeasurable merit.’
“The king inquired of his daughter, ‘How did you cut the flesh from your body? Daughter, when you engaged in creating this remedy, Did you not suffer from physical pain?’
“The wise and fearless princess replied to him, ‘King, lord of the earth, listen
Having listened, understand correctly The inconceivable ripening of karma.
“ ‘Father, through having done bad actions, Beings fall into dreadful hell
They lose their flesh, and again have flesh. See the inconceivable result of actions!
“ ‘Through bad karma they have no flesh or blood, And in an instant they again have flesh and blood
Therefore, needless to say that, because of good karma, Through aspiration flesh and blood will be created.
“ ‘I had no pain when I cut my flesh. When the blood flowed I did not become dizzy
Even if I were to cut off all of my flesh, The body of the Dharma would have no wound or cut.
“ ‘Feeling perfect joy in the Dharma, I cut the flesh to be given from my thighs
I had no suffering because of the wounds, And my body became as it was before.
I had no suffering because of the wounds, And my body became as it was before.
This dharmabhāṇaka is just like that, Seen rarely in this Jambudvīpa.
“ ‘Father, just like a fig-tree flower is only seen A few times in many millions of eons
“ ‘Just as humans never tire of gazing Upon shining Jambu River gold
Devas and humans never tire of gazing In that way upon this dharmabhāṇaka.
“ ‘Just as a thirsty man is freed from thirst When he drinks clear water
In the same way wise dharmabhāṇakas Free beings of thirst with the nectar of Dharma.
“ ‘This my flesh and blood that I bestowed Upon the bhikṣu who was afflicted by illnes
Eliminated the dharmabhāṇaka’s erysipelas, And I thus respectfully rendered homage to the Buddha.
“ ‘I gave of my own flesh To the learned one with correct conduct, Who is a holder of this supreme samādhi. May I obtain from him this Dharma!
“ ‘Just as the fragrant aroma of the incense Of yellow sandalwood and red sandalwoo
Spreads throughout the ten directions, So, too, does the aroma of the dharmabhāṇaka.
“ ‘Just as Meru is seen from every direction, And seeing its beauty brings jo
And it illuminates, shining in all directions, In that way the dharmabhāṇaka is like Meru.
“ ‘Just as when a wise man rebuilds A stūpa that has fallen into ruin
His having faith in that stūpa Is the cause for it to be rebuilt,
“ ‘Likewise, this stūpa of the Dharma was ill And I cured it by applying blood. With veneration for the Dharma, with my own flesh I have lit the lamp for Jambudvīpa.
“ ‘If this bhikṣu had passed away, The words of this samādhi would have been Forever silenced for the beings in this world. By healing him
this samādhi will be obtained.
“ ‘This bhikṣu is a protector of the whole world, And gives sight to the blind world
With the king of medicines he even heals Desire, anger, and ignorance.
Desire, anger, and ignorance.
“ ‘He always has a mind that is vast, The extent of his conduct is immeasurable
He is learned in words and their definite meaning, And he cannot be defeated by opponents.
Throughout thousands of millions of eons, As I have performed a supreme service for the dharmabhāṇaka.’ ”
“ ‘I have no fear that I will fall into lower realms, And I will not again become a woma
At this point, the Bhagavān said to the youth Candraprabha
“Therefore, young man, when the princess had heard this Dharma of the bodhisattva, which is marvelous, wonderful, and very difficult to practice
in order to serve the sick dharmabhāṇaka for whom there was no medicine, she used her own flesh and blood to heal him
Even the gift of just one finger will be a service to the stūpa of the Dharma for beings.
Thereupon the Bhagavān gave a detailed teaching on that account of the past by chanting the following extensive verses to the youth Candraprabha
Than that from offering to the guides Jewels filling buddha realms as numerous as the Ganges sands.
“The one who makes an offering of a single toe Gains excellent merit that is millions of times greate
“After that girl had passed away She saw ten thousand million buddhas
She entered homelessness in all their teachings And obtained the supreme peace of this samādhi.
“When all those supreme humans Had passed into nirvāṇ
As bodhisattvas, unafflicted, She always maintained homelessness.
“She practiced celibacy within the teachings Of the tathāgata Dīpaprabha
Never again reverting to being a woman, She became a dharmabhāṇaka bhikṣu.
“Maitreya was Jñānabala, the ruler of men, Who always maintained the supreme Dharma
Dīpaṃkara was that dharmabhāṇaka, And I was then that princess.
“Akṣobhya, when he was practicing bodhisattva conduct, Was at that time the ancient goddess of the family, Who was the attendant of sovereign Jñānabala And revealed the dream to the king. {i
And revealed the dream to the king. {i
“Because of my longing for this samādhi, Avoiding all wickednes
I served that dharmabhāṇaka With my flesh and my blood.
“Those who wept when they saw the bhikṣu Afflicted by the agony of his illnes
 Conclusion of the thirty-fifth chapter, “Jñānāvatī.
They will not be protected by dhyāna or by solitude, Nor by generosity or offering to buddhas.
“Those who are malicious toward each other Will not be protected by correct conduct, or by learning
Do not be blind for many millions of eons And fall into the lower existences and experience suffering.
“Forsaking aggression and wrath, Make offerings to my sons, the protectors of the Dharma
Forsaking harshness and anger, Always serve the bhikṣu dharmabhāṇakas.
“When wise bhikṣus with correct conduct are seen They should always be served with sincerity
When they hear of my past conduct They will make vast offerings to the buddhas.
“When they have heard this unsurpassable conduct They will attain the superior, unworldly joy
And having accomplished great benefit for beings, They will see the supreme human, Akṣobhya.
“Having obtained this supreme enlightenment, They will always keep it and venerate it
They will obtain the treasure of the tathāgatas, And see ten thousand million buddhas.
“They have entered homelessness in my teaching And in future times when the supreme enlightenment is vanishin
Their bodies shining with splendor and majesty, Adorned by the vivid thirty-two signs of hundreds of merits.
“Those who attended the sick monk Became always very attractive
No illness of the nose, no illness of the tongue, And never any illness of the teeth.
“They never had illness of the eyes, No illness of the head, no illness of the ears
Became irreversible in their progress in all their lifetimes And were never reborn into the lower existences.
“If the Bhagavān will give me an opportunity to seek answers to them
with palms placed together he bowed toward the Bhagavān and made this request
Then at that time Brother Ānanda rose from his seat, removed his robe from one shoulder, and, kneeling on his right knee
I have a few questions for the Bhagavān, the tathāgata, the arhat, the perfectly enlightened Buddha.
The Bhagavān addressed Brother Ānanda, saying
“That is why, Ānanda, I am seated upon this seat
Ask whatever question you wish to the Tathāgata, the arhat, the perfectly enlightened Buddha
and I shall gratify you with answers to each and every question you have asked.
Brother Ānanda then said to the Bhagavān
“Bhagavān, I have been given the opportunity
Sugata, I have been given the opportunity to receive answers to my questions.
So Brother Ānanda, having received the Bhagavān’s permission, sat upon a seat before the Bhagavān and asked him
“Bhagavān, what is the cause and what are the factors whereby when bodhisattva mahāsattvas are practicing infinite bodhisattva conduct
their noses are cut off, their eyes are gouged out, their heads are cut off, their bodies are cut up, and their limbs are cut off
or they experience various other kinds of suffering
What is the cause and what are the factors for that?
they do not regress from enlightenmen
even if their hands are cut off, their feet are cut off, their ears are cut off
The Bhagavān replied to Brother Ānanda
“Ānanda, in order to truly accomplish the highest, complete enlightenment
I experienced every kind of suffering
You know and remember this, so what made you decide to ask the Tathāgata this question
“Ānanda, as an analogy, if there were a person who was on fire from his feet to the crown of his head
burning so that he was a single flame, and someone else were to come up to him and say
‘Oh, you sir, while you are still burning, should encounter, be provided with, delight in, enjoy, and indulge in the five sensory pleasures!
what would he think? Would that person, while he was still burning, encounter, be provided with, delight in, enjoy, and indulge in the five sensory pleasures?
“No, Bhagavān, he would not,” replied Ānanda. The Bhagavān continued
“Ānanda, consider whether that person
while still burning, could encounter, be provided with, delight in, enjoy, and indulge in the five sensory pleasures
The tathāgata, while practicing bodhisattva conduct in the past, was not happy or joyful on seeing beings suffering and in poverty in the three lower existences
“Ānanda, when bodhisattva mahāsattvas of the past were practicing bodhisattva conduct
they had perfect correct conduct, faultless correct conduct
pure correct conduct, unalloyed correct conduct
immaculate correct conduct, unwavering correct conduct, unshakable correct conduct
imperturbable correct conduct, resolute correct conduct, sincere correct conduct
trustworthy correct conduct, honest correct conduct, correct conduct that was faithful to the vows they had taken
and correct conduct that benefits beings. That is the kind of correct conduct they had
“Ānanda, the bodhisattva mahāsattvas of the past who were practicing infinite bodhisattva conduc
did not regress if their hands were cut off, did not regress if their feet were cut off
did not regress if their ears were cut off, did not regress if their noses were cut off
did not regress if their eyes were gouged out or their heads were cut off
and did not regress if their body or limbs were severed
Even if they experienced various kinds of suffering, they quickly attained the highest, complete enlightenment of perfect buddhahood
“Ānanda, you should understand this through the following teaching
“Ānanda, in the past, countless, vast, immeasurable, inconceivable, innumerable countless eons ago, at that time and in those days
an unsurpassable guide who tamed beings, a teacher of devas and humans, a buddha, and a bhagavān
Ratna­padma­candra­viśuddhābhyud­gata­rāja
there appeared in the worl
a sugata, a knower of the world
who was perfect in wisdom and conduct
Each day, every day, he established ninety-nine hundred thousand quintillion beings irreversibly in the Dharma
Having established them in the Dharma, he passed into nirvāṇa. He established countless, innumerable beings in the state of arhathood without outflows
and having done so passed into nirvāṇa
He established countless, innumerable beings in irreversible progress toward the highest, complete enlightenment and then he passed into nirvāṇa
“Ānanda, at that time, after the Bhagavān, the tathāgata, the arhat, the perfectly enlightened Buddha Ratna­padma­candra­viśuddhābhyud­gata­rāj
“At that time and in those days, the lifespan of the Bhagavān, the tathāgata, the arhat, the perfectly enlightened Buddha Ratna­padma­candra­viśuddhābhyud­gata­rāj
was ninety-nine quintillion eons
at the time when the supreme Dharma was being destroyed, there was, Ānanda, a king named Śūradatta
King Śūradatta had eighty-four thousand women in his harem
He had a thousand sons, and five hundred daughters
“At that time and in those days, King Śūradatta had a capital city named Ratnāvatī, which was vast and immense, and had four gateways
It was adorned and beautified by balconies, porticoes, entranceway arches, windows, upper pavilions, towers, and gardens
It was beautiful, and appeared like the abode of a deity. It was the residence of countless, innumerable beings
“Ānanda, at that time and in those days, many people detested sūtras like this
Many people rejected them. Many people were hostile to them. Many people dismissed them. It was a time of great terrors
“Ānanda, in that forest a variety of flowers, blossoms, vines, and fruits were always displayed, and the forest was filled with a variety of trees that were like wish-fulfilling trees
They, along with the dharmabhāṇaka Supuṣpacandra, resorted to the forest called Samantabhadra and dwelt there. Supuṣpacandra taught those bhikṣus there the Dharma teaching of retention
“Seven thousand bodhisattvas were expelled from the villages, the towns, the market towns, the regions, the capital, and the kingdom
It was a time of seeking out the mantras of the tīrthikas. It was the time when the enlightenment of buddhahood was vanishing
It was a time of false views. It was a time of wrong views
It was a time of disasters caused by lightning. It was a time of famines
It was a time of great calamites, of excessive rains, and of droughts. It was a time of many snakes
The ground was covered with the adornment of many different forms and colors of seeds and seedlings
“Ānanda, the dharmabhāṇaka Supuṣpacandra went to stay alone in a secluded place
With his pure divine sight, which transcended that of humans
he saw that many trillions of bodhisattvas who had developed roots of goodness in various buddha realms had been reborn in this world
If they were able to hear this Dharma teaching of retention they would proceed irreversibly to the highest, complete enlightenment
However, if they did not hear this Dharma teaching of retention they would regress from the highest, complete enlightenment
“Then the dharmabhāṇaka Supuṣpacandra mindfully and knowingly arose from that samādhi and went to the great assembly of bodhisattvas
When he had reached it, he announced to that great assembly of bodhisattvas
‘Noble sons, I am going to the villages, the towns, the market towns
beautified by a variety of rocks and stones, and stainless water
and adorned by beautiful, vast, high, golden mountains
Siddhas, vidyādharas, gandharvas, yakṣas, kiṃpuruṣas, sages, and kiṃnaras dwelt there
It was inhabited by flocks of birds of various colors and shapes
Many buddhas had dwelt there
It was like a delightful garden. It was completely good. It was in that excellent forest called Samantabhadra, perfect for practice, that those bodhisattvas dedicated to practice dwelt
Why
Thereupon he recited these verses: 
‘I cannot protect this teaching While maintaining the concept of a self
In these dreadful latter times there is the great presentation Of the Sugata’s teaching of enlightenment.
“ ‘The one who completely abandons the concept of self And the doctrine of an individual that these beings follow
The one who abandons form, sound, smell, Taste, and touch, is one who protects the teaching.
“ ‘Compared to someone who, with a pure mind, Has honored for millions of eons, as numerous as the Ganges sands
Quintillions of buddhas with food, drink, Parasols, flags, and rows of lights,
“Then the dharmabhāṇaka Supuṣpacandra said to the great assembly of bodhisattvas
‘If I protect myself I cannot protect the teaching of the past, future, and present buddha bhagavāns.
Because the time has come when there are many bhikṣus and bhikṣuṇīs, upāsakas and upāsikās who are extremely arrogant and have rejected the good Dharma
On your forehead there is the adornment of an ūrṇā hair that is like a conch, the moon, or a jasmine flower
with a complexion that is like excellent polished gold
in the flush of youth, a young adult
Brother, it will not be good if they kill you. “ ‘Brother, you are very handsome, attractive, and good looking
Your hair and uṣṇīṣa are blue-black, and the locks of your hair curl
Therefore the princes, the king’s ministers, and such others will be envious, hostile, and aggressive, and if they kill you that would not be good.
Always be kind and take care Of those who are to be guided
Those who keep their conduct stainless Are praised by the buddhas.
Sincerely maintain Unalloyed, pure, pristine, stainless conduct
“ ‘Those who have honored The buddhas in the pas
Are protectors who lead all beings To enlightenment
Those who keep the stainless conduct That has been praised by the past buddha
Become those who save many beings From the hells and from bad karma.
“ ‘Give the precious gift of the supreme Dharma And always maintain patience
Remain in solitude, be skilled in samādhi, Meditate, and be gentle
Never engage in quarrels And maintain supreme, peaceful conduct
I am going to the capital, To the city, in order to protect beings.’
“When that sage, the supreme, sublime being Who had great realization, was leaving
Some held him by his feet, Weeping with compassion and shedding tears
Wise one with great realization, do not leave! Look at how beautiful are this charming forest’s trees
With their sweet and fragrant aromas. Protect yourself, and do not leave.
“ ‘The guides of the past, who had the ten strengths, Who had pacified senses, and kindness
Went to forests, cliffs, and mountain summits And there reached the highest enlightenment
They practiced the highest conduct, enlightenment’s cause. They possessed supreme merit and wisdom
Follow their example and remain in the forest. You, who have perfect discipline, do not leave.
“ ‘Your beautiful body is adorned by the signs. Your hair is blue-black in color
An ūrṇā hair is between your eyebrows, As beautiful and bright as a conch
You shine with the color of gold And you illuminate this earth
The king and his followers will thus Become envious and destroy your body.’
The king and his followers will thusBecome envious and destroy your body.’
“Then the dharmabhāṇaka Supuṣpacandra recited the following verses to that great assembly of bodhisattvas
“ ‘The sugatas who lived in the past Were omniscient and without outflows
They all benefited the world And reached supreme enlightenment within the three existences
They practiced the highest conduct, enlightenment’s cause. They possessed supreme merit and wisdom
Follow their example, bodhisattvas, In order to protect millions of beings.’
“They all circumambulated the wise sage And they bowed down to his feet
Overwhelmed with compassion, they cried out, Distressed, unhappy, wailing, and collapsing
Some lost consciousness and fainted, Falling to the ground like sal trees that had been cut down
But the sage, determined to benefit beings Through his accumulation of merit, did not turn back.
“The sage took up his robes and bowl And was prepared, like the maned lion
He remained in the nature of the Dharma And was unaffected by good or bad qualities
If in this world I remain in this forest, Beings will fall into lower realms, which would not be good
Therefore in order to protect beings I am going to the city and the supreme palace.’
“So the dharmabhāṇaka Supuṣpacandra went to the villages, the towns, the market towns
the kingdom, the regions, and the capital, where he taught the Dharma to beings
In the morning as he was going there
he established nine hundred and ninety million beings in irreversible progress toward the highest enlightenment
and that was before he had reached the capital city of Ratnāvatī
Once he had reached the capital city of Ratnāvatī
and was at the side of the capital city of Ratnāvatī
he sat at the feet of a wavy-leaf fig tree and a sal tree
“When that night had passed he went into the capital city of Ratnāvatī
After entering inside he established three hundred and sixty million beings irreversibly in the Dharma
However, he had not had his meal and therefore, fasting that day
he emerged from the capital city of Ratnāvatī and went to the stūpa that contained the fingernail of the Bhagavān
there he stood all day and night
“When that night was over, on the second morning, he went back into the capital city of Ratnāvatī
After entering inside he established two hundred and thirty million beings irreversibly in the Dharma
However, he had not had his meal and therefore, fasting for a second day
“When that night was over, on the third morning, he went back into the capital city of Ratnāvatī
After entering inside he established nine hundred and ninety million beings irreversibly in the Dharma
However, he had not had his meal and therefore, fasting for a third day
“When that night was over, on the fourth morning, he went back into the capital city of Ratnāvatī
However, he had not had his meal and therefore, fasting for a fourth day
After entering inside he established nine million, nine hundred thousand beings in irreversible progress toward the highest enlightenment
“When that night was over, on the fifth morning, he went back into the capital city of Ratnāvatī and entered the harem
After entering inside he established eighty thousand women in irreversible progress toward the highest enlightenment
He also established countless, innumerable townspeople in irreversible progress toward the highest enlightenment
However, he had not had his meal and therefore, fasting for a fifth day
However, he had not had his meal and therefore, fasting for a fifth day
he emerged from the capital city of Ratnāvat
and went to the stūpa that contained the fingernail of the Bhagavān; there he stood all day and night
“When that night was over, on the sixth morning, he went back into the capital city of Ratnāvatī
However, he had not had his meal and therefore, fasting for a sixth day
He established the thousand sons of the king in irreversible progress toward the highest enlightenment
“When that night was over, on the seventh morning, he went back into the capital city of Ratnāvatī
After entering inside he saw King Śūradatta riding toward the par
in a chariot of made of gold with side panels of silver, shafts of uragasāra sandalwood, wheels of beryl
and adorned by a parasol, banners, and flags
The chariot’s shafts were bound with silk and tied with cotton ribbons
Eight hundred maidens were pulling the chariot with precious cords
They brought delight and satisfaction to the foolish but not to the wise
“Eighty-four thousand kṣatriyas, who were like great sal trees, followed in the rear
They were beautiful, pretty, and attractive, with perfect, lovely complexions
Eighty-four thousand brahmins, who were also like great sal trees, followed in their rear
Eighty-four thousand prominent citizens, they, too, like great sal trees, followed in their rear
“The king’s five hundred daughters were being carried in precious palanquins in front
and when they saw the bhikṣu they were instantly established in irreversible progress toward the highest enlightenment
hen the retinue of sixty-eight hundred thousand queens
too, saw the bhikṣu, they also were instantly established in irreversible progress toward the highest enlightenment
“That whole great gathering of people took off their jewels and rings, took off their shoes, removed their robes from one shoulder
and, kneeling on their right knees, with palms placed together bowed toward the bhikṣu
“Then the princesses, too, inspired by their previous roots of goodness
alighted from their palanquins, took off their jewels and rings, took off their shoes, removed their robes from one shoulder
and, kneeling on their right knees, with palms placed together recited these verses to the bhikṣu
“ ‘The arrival of this bhikṣu Has been like the sun
Illuminating everywhere And inspiring the people.
“ ‘The faults of desire have gone, Ignorance also has been cleared away
And the faults of anger and envy Have also instantly departed.
“ ‘The sons of King Śūradatta, His retinue, and so on
None of these followers Are looking at the king.
“ ‘The beauty of this bhikṣu Being honored by the princes Is like the full moon Encircled by the stars.
“ ‘The beauty of this bhikṣu Is like a painting in gol
Created by an expert artist, And like a blossoming king of the sal trees.
“ ‘The beauty of this bhikṣu’s arrival Is like powerful Śakra, the lord of devas, The lord with a thousand eyes, the destroyer of strongholds, And lord of the thirty-three devas on the summit of Sumeru.
“ ‘The beauty of this bhikṣu’s arrival Is like Brahmā residing in Brahmā’s world
Like the deva lord Sunirmita, And like deva Suyāma in the desire realm.
“ ‘The beauty of this bhikṣu’s arrival Is like the sun shining in the sky, Dispelling darkness with a thousand light rays, Illuminating completely every direction.
Illuminating completely every direction.
Of endless eons of vast generosity
The constant maintenance of unsullied conduct, And unequaled patience within in all worlds.
“ ‘He is beautiful with the physical sign
Having confidently practiced the four dhyānas, And having developed wisdom and destroyed the net of the kleśas.
Having developed the diligence praised by the noble beings
“ ‘This bhikṣu has appeared in the worl
“ ‘The unequaled teaching of the buddhas, which is dedicated to beings, That supreme Dharma has been taught by the heroes of the past
The same will occur in future times and in the present. They are the sons who obtain the power of a Dharma king.
“ ‘Bhikṣu, may you never be impermanent! May your body in this way shine throughout the worl
With your great majesty and beautiful voice. Even the majesty of the king does not shine so brightly.
“ ‘Just as you have realized the Dharma And practiced the Buddha’s instructions in the world
May we abandon the condition of womanhood And all become bhikṣus like you.’
They placed their fingers together in homage, Recited these verses, and cast toward hi
Clothing, gold chains, strings of jewels, And their necklaces and earrings.
“ ‘Just as the cakravartin kings, Who had great power, surveyed the entire earth
Traveled through the four continents, And perceived all as being their children
Likewise he does not have stronger affection For the kṣatriyas, head merchants, and brahmins, Or heads of households, local governors, and relations
But instead has love for everyone equally.
“ ‘It is the same for this kind bhikṣu, Who is trained and has the power of retention
And who elucidates the aspects of enlightenment, The strengths, the powers, and the eightfold path
He is majestic and illuminating Like the moon at night, Shining in the midst of the stars, Or the disc of the rising sun.
“ ‘He pays homage to all the kind buddhas Who have the ten strengths and pacified senses
If someone were to recite their praises They could not finish even in a hundred eons
One could not conclude describing their qualities Even after many thousands of millions of eons
One could not even conclude the praises Of just one body hair of the most excellent in the world.
“ ‘The omniscient buddhas have turned the Dharma wheel And taught the unequaled level of wisdom
They have taught the detailed, stainless Dharma That is not to be found anywhere else
he renunciants, brahmins, devas, and nāgas, The asuras, māras, Brahmakāyika devas, and so on
Are not able to describe the ocean of qualities That the omniscient buddhas have.
“ ‘We praise the unequaled Jina, the king of healing, And this bhikṣu who is his heart son.
The young daughters of the king joyfully Recited those verses and at that tim
They cast gold and gold dust And spread out clothin
And top-knot jewels and necklaces Worth a hundred million
They presented these to the bhikṣu And were joyfully established on the path to enlightenment.
“Then King Śūradatta thought
‘Alas! My harem has gone astray, and so has the populace
These people have cast off their jewels and rings, taken off their shoes, bared one shoulder
knelt on their right knee, and with palms placed together they have paid homage to that bhikṣu.
“King Śūradatta was not as handsome and not as attractive as that good-looking bhikṣu
Fearing for his royal status he became furious
When he saw the perfection of the bhikṣu’s body, he became extremely enraged
As the bhikṣu had been walking upon the king’s road, some dust had blown into one of his eyes
The king thought, ‘This bhikṣu is looking at my queens with lust in his mind and he is winking at them
“King Śūradatta summoned his thousand sons who were following behind, an
commanded them, ‘Princes, you must slay this bhikṣu!
But the princes refused to obey King Śūradatta and he thought
‘Because of this bhikṣu even my own sons refuse to obey me! I will be left alone and friendless
cut off his ears and nose, and gouged out both his eyes
“So Nandika the executioner thereupon took a sharp sword and severed the bhikṣu’s hands and feet
I am very able! I will fulfill your command and I will slay this bhikṣu.’“The king said
Therefore, Nandika, know the time has come. Take a sharp sword and cut off the bhikṣu’s hands and feet
and cut off his ears and nose, and, because he has looked upon my harem with desire, gouge out his eyes!
King Śūradatta inquired of Nandika, ‘If you wish to greatly please me, are you able to slay this bhikṣu?’ “Nandika answered, ‘Your Majesty
When King Śūradatta saw him, he rejoiced and was happy, joyful, hopeful, and comforted, thinking
‘Nandika will slay this bhikṣu.
Now, who will slay this bhikṣu?
“Then the executioner Nandika approached King Śūradatta
so who will slay this bhikṣu?
“King Śūradatta had an executioner named Nandika, who was cruel, merciless, and ferocious, and he was not far from King Śūradatta upon the king’s road
“From the places where the bhikṣu’s head, ears, feet, hands, and eyes had been cut, many quintillions of light rays shone forth
and many streams of milk, that circled the ten directions and then returned into the bhikṣu’s body
Śrīvatsas, svastikas, wheels, and so on, also emerged from and reentered his severed body, and the thirty-two signs of a great being became visible
“After the king had proceeded on from the crowd of people
that crowd of people came and saw that the bhikṣu had been cut and chopped up on the road
They were distressed, unhappy, and shocked
Weeping, crying out, and wailing, they went back into the capital city of Ratnāvatī
“King Śūradatta spent seven days in the park, but he was not happy
did not take part in amusements, and did not go for walks
After seven days had passed he left the park and went into the capital city of Ratnāvatī
He saw the bhikṣu’s body, which had been left on the king’s road, and although seven days had passed since he had died, the color of his body was unchanged
“He thought, ‘The color of this bhikṣu’s body has not changed
which means that without any doubt this bhikṣu was irreversibly progressing to the highest, complete buddhahood
I have accumulated the bad karma that will cause me to be reborn in a great hell
I will soon fall into a great hell.
“In the sky above him eighty thousand devas proclaimed in one voice
‘It is as you have said, great king
This bhikṣu was irreversibly progressing to the highest, complete enlightenment
“When King Śūradatta heard the words of the devas in the sky
he became frightened, paralyzed with fear, with the hairs on his body standing on end, and was filled with remorse
In suffering, distressed, and filled with remorse, he wailed and recited these verses
“ ‘Forsaking the kingdom and the royal capital, Jewels, gems, pearls, gold, and wealth
I myself took up a weapon and myself killed. Foolishly I have created bad karma.
I myself took up a weapon and myself killed. Foolishly I have created bad karma.
“ ‘The bhikṣu Supuṣpacandra was here, Armored in the thirty-two characteristics
Shining, he entered the royal capital Like the full moon, the king of the stars.
“ ‘Agitated by the evil of sensory pleasures, I set forth in the pleasurable company of my wives
Riding in chariots accompanied by a retinue of kṣatriyas, When this fragrant, beautiful-eyed bhikṣu arrived.
“ ‘When my company of wives saw him they were overjoyed
With adoration they cast off their gold necklaces. They all placed their ten fingers together in homag
And praised that monk by singing verses.
“ ‘They were riding in chariots
But they stopped singing to their kin
accompanied by kṣatriyas
When this powerful, supreme son of the sugata, This fragrant, beautiful-eyed bhikṣu arrived.
“ ‘When this bhikṣu came into the capital My mind became extremely wicked
Ignorant, I was furious and jealous On seeing the joy of that great gathering of my wives.
“ ‘He illuminated completely the four directions Like the beautiful moon freed from an eclipse
My assembly of wives was overjoyed and cried out When they saw the bhikṣu come into the capital.
“ ‘At that moment I spoke with wrathful words, Saying to my thousand sons
“Chop to pieces that bhikṣu Who is my dreadful, worst enemy.”
“ ‘All the princes, whose conduct was gentle, Wished to benefit themselves and bowed down to the bhikṣu
He was someone who would carry out my command, And he cut up the bhikṣu like cutting up a garland of flowers.
“ ‘Nandika, who was upon the king’s road, With extremely cruel actions makes people suffer
With an evil intention I had the opportunity to kill him, And in the future I will burn in the Avīci hell.
“ ‘When I saw this bhikṣu who had perfect conduct, And who had kindness like that of a father
They bowed down and said, “Majesty, that command should not be obeyed,” And I became at that time overcome by sadness.
With extremely cruel actions makes people suffer; He was someone who would carry out my command
And he cut up the bhikṣu like cutting up a garland of flowers.
“ ‘In the pleasant, supreme forest Samantabhadra, Filled with birds and the aroma of flowers
The vast community of bhikṣus Are like only sons who have lost their mothers.
“ ‘Arise, bhikṣu, who dwelt in that forest! You came to the king’s capital To accomplish vast benefit for beings
Weeping, they long for the greatly compassionate bhikṣu.
Having reduced the bhikṣu to pieces, I am at the furthest distance from buddhahood.
I shall helplessly go to Avīci, to Yama’s realm
“ ‘Supuṣpacandra, who was like the king of mountains, Adorned by the thirty-two signs
Has in an instant been broken into pieces Like a flower garland held by a woman.
In this time of the destruction of the supreme Jina’s teaching.
May there be no obstacle to our lif
“ ‘I have had the road swept and covered with cloth. Banners of flowers have been arranged on the right And other beautiful images on the left
Arise, bhikṣu, and teach the supreme Dharma!
“ ‘You have been long absent from the king’s capital. Weeping, they long for the greatly compassionate bhikṣu
“ ‘Just as some beings who have great power— Ever renowned throughout the ten direction
And outshining all in these three existences— Leap down from a great height on to the earth,
“ ‘My sons will not save me, nor my family, Nor my ministers, nor the slaves at my feet
“ ‘In the same way, this bhikṣu has fallen to the earth With a body beautified by the supreme signs
With an evil intention, I have reduced to pieces Supuṣpacandra, who was faultless and blameless.
As soon as they see this dharmabhāṇaka, Supuṣpacandra, slain and fallen to the ground.
“ ‘All the bhikṣus will be stricken by suffering, Will be dismayed and similarly grief-stricke
“ ‘I have created the worst bad karma
For I have myself created the worst bad karma.
They will not save me from going to hel
“ ‘I go for refuge to the buddhas of the past, of the future, And those now present in the ten directions
Those leaders who have the ten strengths, Have no kleśas, and have bodies as invincible as vajras!’
“The devas there wailed pitifully When they saw the bhikṣu in pieces
They went to inform the saṅgha That Supuṣpacandra had been killed in the capital.
“ ‘The wise and learned dharmabhāṇaka, Powerful and renowned in all directions
The bodhisattva who was established in retention, That Supuṣpacandra, has been slain in the capital.
“ ‘He who for countless eons practiced generosity, Maintained faultless, unwavering conduct
And had unequaled patience within all worlds, That Supuṣpacandra has been killed in the capital.
“ ‘He who for countless eons was always diligent, Confidently meditated on the four dhyānas
And had the wisdom that eliminated the kleśas, That Supuṣpacandra has been killed in the capital.
“ ‘He who gave up all attachment to his body, Who had no regard for his own life
And departed from Samantabhadra Forest, That Supuṣpacandra has been killed in the capital.’
“Having heard the pitiful wailing of the devas, All the bhikṣus experienced great suffering
They all went to the city in order to see The slain innocent Supuṣpacandra. {i
“Those compassionate ones came to the capital And when they saw the bhikṣu cut into piece
They all wailed terribly in distress And they fainted and fell to the ground.
“The saṅgha of bhikṣus asked the king
‘Why did you commit this offence against a bhikṣu Who maintained correct conduct without a fault
And could remember countless previous lives?
“ ‘He had attained the power of wisdom and retention, He knew that everything composite was empty
He taught the absence of attributes to beings, And had abandoned all concepts of aspiration.
“ ‘He had pleasant and delightful speech, He had pacified senses and was amiable
“ ‘He had pleasant and delightful speech, He had pacified senses and was amiable
He had complete knowledge of others’ previous lives, And he had transcended the world
He was the portrait of a supreme leader With the wisdom of self-arisen buddhahood
He saw with pure and unobscured eyesAnd had extremely great love and compassion.
“ ‘Killing through evil desires and causing suffering Destroys rebirth in the upper realms
People who are dedicated to their desires Become deaf and devoid of wisdom
People who are dedicated to their desires Become blind and murder their fathers and mothers
People who are dedicated to their desires slay those with correct conduct, And therefore people should forsake desires.
“ ‘The kings who are dedicated to their desires, Those rulers of the world throw away their prosperit
nd go to the dreadful, terrible hells That cause suffering and endless fear
This kind of bad karma is always created By the slaying of a wise bhikṣu
Therefore one who wishes for the peace of enlightenment Should abandon every kind of bad action.
He knows the body is like an illusion and chaff, As are the ears, eyes, nose, and tongue.
“ ‘A jina, without dismay, gives away the best forms, Sounds, tastes, smells, tangibles, and phenomena
“ ‘He trains in unequaled generosity, correct conduct, patience, and diligence
He is dedicated to dhyāna, attains perfect wisdom, And accomplishes the benefit of beings
The entire world with its devas and humans Together look with love upon a jina
Thereby, with eyes that have been freed from blindness, They become enlightened, attaining the peace of buddhahood.
“ ‘The jinas joyfully give away horses, Elephants, litters, palanquins, Couches, bulls, and carriages, Wagons, villages, and regions
They give away towns and kingdoms, Gold, silver, crystal, and coral
They give away wives, sons, daughters, And their own heads, and are established in enlightenment.
Offerings of flowers and incense, Holding parasols, banners, divine flags, And musical instruments of various kinds
“ ‘They joyfully make unequale
They know existence to be emptyAnd do not rejoice in rebirth in existence
They have the ten strengths, are adorned by the signs, And they illuminate all ten directions.
They have no attachment to the realm of desire, To the form realm, or to the formless realm.
“ ‘The bodhisattvas established in retentio
Have no attachment to the phenomena of the three realms
Have no concept of a self, no concept of being, No concept of a soul, and no concept of an individual
And always practice unsullied celibacy.
Have no concept of things and no concept of nothing, No concept of happiness and no concept of unhappiness
And no concept of number and no concept of numberless.
“ ‘They have no concept of existence and no concept of nonexistence, No concept of woman and no concept of man
No concept of villages and no concept of towns
And no concept of regions and no concept of market towns.
And no concept of ignorance and no concept of no ignorance.
Have no concept of pride and no concept of no pride, No concept of ignorance and no concept of no ignorance
And no concept of view and no concept of no view. {i
Have no attachment to the powers and the strengths, No attachment to the dhyānas and the aspects of enlightenment
And have abandoned all the evils in the three realms.
“ ‘They have no desire or passion, no anger or rage; They have no ignorance or dullness, and are always honest
When they see the buddhas with their ten strengths, they honor them
And they do not gain knowledge for the sake of rebirth in the higher realms.
“ ‘When they hear the unique Dharma from another, They never have any doubt in it
They know if there is deficiency or not in others’ minds, Like looking into a clear, pure bowl of sesame oil.
They know if there is deficiency or not in others’ minds, Like looking into a clear, pure bowl of sesame oil.
“ ‘If attachment develops, That friendliness is a great kleśa
If anger develops then that aggression Brings evil, enmity, and fear
Completely rejecting both of those, The wise ones are established in enlightenment
They become here the great leaders of humans, Endowed with the ten strengths, appearing in the world.
“ ‘They abandon the internal and the external And remain in the nature of phenomena
They have correct conduct that is pure, Without defect, unsullied, and faultless
Their conduct is never sullied And it is never corrupted
The wise ones avoid attachment and anger And attain the peace of enlightenment.’
“After King Śūradatta had heard from the saṅgha what vast, extensive, and special qualities the dharmabhāṇaka Supuṣpacandra had
he was in suffering and unhappy, and therupon he recited these lines of verse to that great assembly of bodhisattvas
“ ‘The dense forest of Samantabhadra, Filled with great trees and beautified by fruit
Adorned by beautiful flowers that appear in all seasons And where various birds sing their songs, {i
“ ‘And adorned by tall, stately, golden mountains And by the tuneful song of kiṃnaras
By skillfully created, pleasant music, And the constant dancing of adept maidens— {ii
“ ‘That forest is like a deva’s park, With trees that have beautiful, shining forms
With a carpet of various kinds of flowers, And with rivers adorned by blue and red lotuses. {iii
“ ‘Sages constantly live in harmony Within such a delightful forest
He departed from it wishing to benefit beings And came to my city, which is a mass of sin. {iv
“ ‘That dharmabhāṇaka with excellent qualities, Supuṣpacandra, came here to this city
When he came I committed the evil action of having him slain, And because of his death I am going to fall down into hell. {v
And because of his death I am going to fall down into hell. {v
“ ‘May the bodhisattvas who have the power of compassion, The heroes who act in this world to benefit beings
Give their protection to me, who have done such evil things: I go to those bodhisattvas for refuge. {vi
“ ‘Secondly, those who are pratyekabuddhas, And also śrāvakas with miraculous powers
Whose outflows have ceased and are in their last body, Save me from the suffering of being reborn in the Avīci hell!’ ” {vii
Then at that time the Bhagavān said to Ānanda, “In that way, Ānanda
the bodhisattva mahāsattva has no attachment to life or body
Why is that? Because, Ānanda, beings who have attachment to life and body create bad karma
On this topic it was said
Which is like a dream or an illusion, {viii
“Beings who have attachmen
To this body, which is constantly rotting, And to this life, unstable and powerless
“They fall under the power of ignorance And create extremely dreadful karma
Devoid of wisdom, following Māra, They are reborn in the terrible hells. {ix
“Those humans who are indifferent To their body, which is like a lump of foam
And their life, which is like a water bubble, Will become supreme beings.” {x
Then the Bhagavān said to Brother Ānanda, “Ānanda, in that way bodhisattva mahāsattvas who wish for this samādhi
and wish to attain quickly the highest, complete enlightenment of perfect buddhahood, should train in this samādhi
and should have no regard for their body or life. They should be as diligently dedicated as they would if their hair or clothes were on fire
and have great compassion for all beings
there teach the Dharma to beings so that beings can attain irreversible progress toward the enlightenment of the śrāvaka, irreversible progress toward the enlightenment of the pratyekabuddha, or irreversible progress toward the highest, complete enlightenment.
For example, they should give up living happily in solitude, solitary places, and forests
and enter the villages, the towns, the market towns, the regions, the kingdom, the capital, and district capitals, an
“At that past time, when I was practicing bodhisattva conduct, I was King Śūradatta
Thereupon the Bhagavān gave a detailed teaching on this episode from the past by chanting the following verses to Brother Ānanda
Wearing the armor of the thirty-two signs, And he illuminated all directions.
“While riding in the chariot I saw a bhikṣu Who was perfectly handsome and attractive
I left my capital city Ratnāvatī On the way to a place that was a park.
“He was renowned as Supuṣpacandra, And was compassionate, beneficial, and kind
He was beautiful with his splendor and majesty, And through his love for beings he had come to town.
“I could not be his equal in appearance, And a malevolent envy arose within me
I was attached to desires and clung to my kingdom, And thought he would deprive me of my kingdom.
“I had sons that numbered a full thousand, Who were following behind me riding in chariots
And who wore various kinds of diadems and jewelry, As if the devas who were lords of Trāyastriṃśa had come.
“I also had there five hundred daughters, Who were very beautiful and wore bejeweled shoes
Beautified by ribbons, diadems, and jewelry, Who pulled my chariot with cords of gold.
“I had my eighty thousand wives, Who were all alluring and very beautiful
From within their chariots they saw the bhikṣu, Whose body had the shining splendor of Mount Meru.
“When they saw him they conceived of him as like a father, And they developed the aspiration to attain supreme enlightenment
Then they adopted the practice of celibacy And they cast off their delightful jewelry.
“At that time there arose within me envy And intractable, pitiless malice and anger
Proud of my power, I said to my sons, ‘Slay that bhikṣu who is before me!’
“The princes, on hearing my words, Became distressed and unhappy
They said, ‘Father, do not speak such words! We will not slay such a bhikṣu!
“ ‘Even if our bodies and limbs were to be cut up For as many eons as there are sand grains in the Ganges
They said, ‘Father, do not speak such words! We will not slay such a bhikṣu!
Nevertheless we would never slay this bhikṣu, As we have developed the aspiration for enlightenment.’
“When the king had heard the words of his sons He furiously ordered his serving executioner
‘Quickly bring to me this bhikṣu slain, Who is standing in front of my harem!’
“Then the executioner named Nandika, Cruel and malevolent, followed him
He took a sword oiled with sesame oil, And with it he cut the bhikṣu into eight pieces.
“When he cut into the body and limbs, Instead of blood a thousand light rays were emitted
And where it was cut open, inside the body Were symbols, such as śrīvatsas and wheels. {i
“Having committed such a dreadful act, The king instantly departed for the park
Thinking of the bhikṣu Puṣpacandra, He could not join in amusements or be happy.
“He very quickly and in a hasty manner Departed from the park to return to his palace
His chariot on the way came to the place Where the bhikṣu lay in eight pieces.
“There he heard the sound of the wailing Of many millions of devas in the sky
They cried, ‘King, you have created so much bad karma That when you die you will go to the miseries of the Avīci hell!’
“When the king had heard those words He became distressed, sorrowful, and afraid
He thought, ‘I have created so much bad karma Through my having Puṣpacandra killed!
“ ‘He was the son of the buddhas, of the leaders of men, Of the tathāgatas who have infinite wisdom
He controlled his senses, was caring, had a peaceful mind, But because of my desires I had him slain.
“ ‘He possessed the Dharma of the tathāgatas. In the age of destruction he was a treasure of the Dharma
He was a lamp of wisdom for the entire world, But because of my desires I had him slain.
“ ‘He was a king of physicians for this entire world And he was always healing beings
He gave them the shining elixir of amrita, But because of my desires I had him slain. {i
He gave them the shining elixir of amrita, But because of my desires I had him slain. {i
“ ‘He explained to beings the Dharma That is profound, peaceful, and difficult to see
He was a teacher of the supreme essence of enlightenment, But because of my desires I had him slain.
“ ‘He possessed the Dharma treasure of the guides, And he was a lamp for a world in darkness
He possessed the retention of the king of sūtras, But because of my desires I had him slain.
“ ‘He was free of the kleśas and possessed pure wisdom, And he constantly rested in a state of peace, perfect peace
I had him killed today because of my desires, Which was extremely evil, and I will go to hell.
“ ‘The buddhas of the past and of the future, And the jinas, the supreme men, of the present
Who are endlessly praised and have an ocean of qualities, With my hands together in homage I go to them for refuge.’
“When King Śūradatta saw that the body of the slain dharmabhāṇaka Supuṣpacandra that lay on the ground had not altered in colo
he was distressed, sorrowful, and remorseful. He became crazed and wailed loudly
“He recited these mournful verses that praised the qualities of the dharmabhāṇaka Supuṣpacandra
“ ‘The noble saṅgha in Samantabhadra Forest Requested you in many different way
Not to go to Ratnāvatī, the capital city, Because there would be a danger to your life. {i
“ ‘You did not listen to that saṅgha of bhikṣus. Why, venerable one, did you come to the town
Whatever the reason might be that you came, You should accomplish it, O lamp for the world! {ii
“ ‘The ground is adorned by a variety of divine plants. There is a dense multitude of shining, beautiful trees
It is protected by supreme siddhas and vidyādharas, It is frequented by devas, and the lords of birds sing there. {iii
“ ‘You departed from the perfect, delightful Samantabhadra Forest, where the buddhas always dwell
Gentle one, explain to me today The reason why you came here. {iv
Gentle one, explain to me today The reason why you came here. {iv
“ ‘When I have heard your words, I will fulfill your command. Son of the Buddha, arise and give me your instruction
Alas, what shall I do, god of gods, I am helpless and go to you for refuge! {v
“ ‘Alone like a lion, the king of animals, You left your pride, a supreme saṅgha of bhikṣus
And with compassion for endless beings, With no regard for your own life, you came here. {vi
“ ‘I was overcome with desire and envy And had this hero cut into pieces
Now your entire saṅgha of bhikṣus Has come to the capital in order to see you. {vii
“ ‘That which I, terrified, request of you, It is a request that is worthy to be fulfilled
Puṣpacandra, I pray you free me from fear And that you rise like the moon when it is full. {viii
“ ‘Dharmabhāṇaka who is liberated from anger, Lord of beings, bestow this favor on me
Today, bestow this one favor on me: I pray that you arise, shining like the sun. {ix
“ ‘I have committed an evil, sinful act. I have slain the supreme dharmabhāṇaka
When I die I will be reborn in a terrible hell, And I have no one who can save me from that.
“ ‘Shame upon this sinful mind that creates calamity! Shame upon this kingship of pride and arrogance
I will have to go alone, leaving all behind, Without taking any possessions with me.
“ ‘You have the pure Dharma, and have defeated desire and anger. You speak pleasant words, are self-controlled, and compassionate
You do no wrong, and are the sole friend of beings. Supreme Puṣpacandra, why did I slay you
 “ ‘Ah! You who are wealthy in discipline, patience, and austerity! Ah! You who possess the qualities of a handsome form and kindness
Ah! You who are honest, glorious, and trustworthy— Where have you gone, leaving us behind?
“ ‘Noble one, when your body and limbs were cut, Milk flowed out and thousands of light rays shone forth
The entire world was astonished. My wondrous guide, I pray that you arise! {i
My wondrous guide, I pray that you arise! {i
“ ‘Ah! Puṣpacandra, you are self-controlled and compassionate! Ah! Come here, you mountain of love and compassion
Ah! You are a supreme teacher of the profound Dharma— Divine one, I pray that you be compassionate to me and arise. {ii
“ ‘Ah! Come here, you who have the face of a full moon! Ah! Come here, you who are upon the ten bhūmis
Ah! You are a hero who has power over the ten bhūmis— You, who have power over life, where you have gone? {iii
“ ‘Ah! Come here and speak to me! Ah
You who are so diligent and compassionate, where have you gone? Ah! You have meditated for a long time on patience
You who have great love, arise and speak to me! {iv
“ ‘Ah! God of gods, you who are worthy of offerings, Dharmabhāṇaka, why do you continue to remain silent
Arise, wise one, come into my home And teach the Dharma to the city’s women. {v
“ ‘Divine one, it is not possible to cut up your body. Even the devas, asuras, yakṣas, and rākṣasa
Are unable to destroy this body of yours. Wise one, do not perform this illusion today. {vi
“ ‘Divine one why do you continue with this illusion? This is not a beautiful bodhisattva illusion
Abandon all illusions and arise, And teach the Dharma in the city of Ratnāvatī. {vii
“ ‘Ah! Come here, noble Puṣpacandra! Ah! Come here, you who are without desire for the three realms
Ah! Come here, guide who is like a father and mother— And close the door through which I will go to hell. {viii
“ ‘You are the refuge for those beings reborn in the lower realms, And for beings who are falling into the great Avīci hell
Come here, Protector Supuṣpacandra, And open the door through which I can go to the higher realms! {ix
“ ‘Lord, for seven days you did not eat. Arise and eat a meal in my home
Having eaten a meal, then in Ratnāvatī Establish many beings in the Dharma. {x
“ ‘Ah! My father who is wise in the supreme Dharma! Ah! You who have no enmity toward any being
Ah! Come here before me and teach me the Dharma! Ah! Come here and quickly fulfill my prayers! {xi
“ ‘Ah! The saṅgha of bhikṣus do not have their lord! Ah! They are blinded, distressed, and in sorrow
Ah! Arise quickly, you who are the most precious being— And having arisen bring relief to this saṅgha of bhikṣus. {xii
“ ‘Ah! The saṅgha of bhikṣus do not have their lord! Ah! They are blinded, distressed, and in sorrow
Ah! Arise quickly, you who are the most precious being—And having arisen bring relief to this saṅgha of bhikṣus. {xii
“ ‘Ah! Come here, you who are a light for the three realms! Ah! Come and enter the Samantabhadra Forest
Enter the supreme forest, Samantabhadra, And teach so as to benefit the bhikṣus. {xiii
“ ‘Oh! Oh! You possess the Dharma and have marvelous qualities. You are as rare as a flower on the sacred fig tree
Oh! Oh! Look upon the saṅgha of bhikṣus With your stainless eyes of wisdom and compassion
Oh! Oh! Teach to the bhikṣus The retention that is beyond words
Oh! Oh! Puṣpacandra, arise here today Like the rising moon. {xiv
“ ‘Oh! Oh! Son of the jinas, who has compassion for me, Unsurpassable teacher, bring me relief
Oh! Oh! You who when struck by swords and sticks Have the power of great patience and kindness
Oh! Oh! Compassionate Supuṣpacandra, Generous guide, I pray that you arise
Oh! Oh! Arise and teach to me The retention that is difficult to see. {xv
“ ‘Oh! Oh! You are the supreme lamp of wisdom That illuminates the entire world
Oh! Oh! You are dedicated to the benefit of beings; You are the guide with the strength of compassion
Oh! Oh! Arise, Puṣpacandra, the hero Who accomplishes the benefit of beings
Oh! Oh! Arise and bring trillions Of beings to the city of peace. {xvi
“ ‘Oh! Oh! You who have the wealth of correct conduct, You have understanding, the wealth of training, and are wise
Oh! Oh! You remain in the discipline of correct conduct And rejoice in the seedlings of the trees of Dharma
Oh! Oh! You wear the orange dyed dharma robes, And are always satisfied by renunciation
Oh! Oh! Arise, glorious Puṣpacandra, Who has perfect discipline, generosity, and austerity. {xvii
“ ‘Oh! Oh! Tamed one who tames untamed beings, Who always has the state of being tamed
Oh! Oh! Tamed one who follows those who are tamed, Who is peaceful, and who has pacified senses
Oh! Oh! Tamed one who follows those who are tamed, Who is peaceful, and who has pacified senses
Who always has the state of being tamed
Oh! Oh! You continually with the sound of the DharmaAwaken beings who are asleep, deeply asleep
“ ‘Oh! Oh! With the planks of generosity You have made a ship and tied it with the ropes of diligence
Oh! Oh! You awaken millions of beingsAnd establish them in the highest yāna. {xviii
Oh! Oh! You rescue the beings who By craving have fallen into the great ocean
Oh! Oh! Arise, Supuṣpa, with the ten strengths, You who are the wise pilot of the ship
Oh! Oh! Sail that stable ship And come and rescue me too. {xix
“ ‘Oh! Oh! You are the supreme doctor, practiced in discipline; You are the unsurpassable doctor, learned in healing
Oh! Oh! You have attained the perfection of liberation through wisdom And you bestow the medicine that is the good Dharma
Oh! Oh! When you see beings who are sick, Afflicted with all kinds of illnesses
Oh! oh! arise quickly and give them The medicine of the Dharma. {xx
“ ‘Oh! Oh! King of the medicine of wisdom, unequaled, You have reached the perfection of superior wisdom
Oh! Oh! You completely cure all illnesses. With compassion you accomplish the benefit of beings
Oh! Oh! Everyone in the realm of sick beings Is afflicted by the illness of desire
Oh! Oh! You make all those beings Happy, healthy, and reach nirvāṇa. {xxi
“ ‘Oh! Oh! Wise one, who has a vast training in wisdom, Beat loudly the drum of the Dharma
Oh! Oh! With your ocean of wisdom cut though All the world’s creepers of doubt
Oh! Oh! You who are excellently learned, Stainless, a holder of the Dharma, a supreme human
Oh! oh! be seated in the midst of your assembly And, wise one, recite thousands of millions of stainless sūtras. {xxii
“ ‘Ah! Puṣpacandra, you are adorned by the supreme primary signs
Ah! Arise, you who have escaped from the prison of existence. Ah! You have sacred, supreme wisdom and knowledge
Ah! Your body has all the eighty excellent secondary signs complete. Ah! Come here, honest one, who has crossed the ocean of existence
Ah! Arise, you who have escaped from the prison of existence
Ah! You have sacred, supreme wisdom and knowledge
Ah! Puṣpacandra, you have great compassion. Ah! Have love and compassion and arise
Ah! Puṣpacandra, I pray to you. {xxiii
Ah! Do not forsake your saṅgha of bhikṣus
Ah! Come here and lead your saṅgha! Ah! Arise and go to that forest
Ah! Puṣpacandra, you enjoy the four dhyānas. Ah! You have love equally for friends and enemies
Ah! Arise, you who maintain unequaled retention
Ah! Come here, arise, you who are a tree of pure wisdom. {xxiv
“ ‘Ah! You are as unshakable as Meru. Ah! You for whom buddhas and beings are equal
Ah! Puṣpacandra, who has perfect discipline— Ah! Arise and attain buddhahood at the foot of the Bodhi tree
Ah! You have divine hearing and possess the supreme Dharma
Ah! You have divine vision, and are wise and adept in wisdom
Ah! Arise, compassionate one, and look at me! Ah! Endlessly famous one, listen to my words! {xxv
“ ‘Ah! You help and benefit the entire world. Ah! Puṣpacandra, you delight in great generosity
Ah! Arise and quickly fulfill my prayer. Ah! Do not remain here in pieces
When the men and the women of this city Saw you lying dead
Their hearts were withered by sorrow. Look upon them with your compassionate eyes! {xxvi
And your vast rejoicing in compassion and equanimity
Devas, nāgas, and asuras with great miraculous powers, Yakṣas, rākṣasas, humans, and kiṃnara
Bring flowers and incense in their cupped hands; They have all come to delight in seeing you. {xxvii
“ ‘Arise, Supuṣpa, so that you may fulfil
The reason for cultivating the strength Of love, wisdom, and method
“ ‘Today I have understood the words of the Sage: The desires of beings are harmful murderers
This fever of the mind is the cause of the lower realms. Therefore I shall forsake acting out of desire.
“ ‘I have committed the sin of slaying the bhikṣu, Which was extremely wicked and will destroy my happiness
I am going to go to the terrible Avīci hell And I have no protector who can save me from that
I am going to go to the terrible Avīci hell And I have no protector who can save me from that
I shall forsake the kingdom and practice celibacy
I shall make excellent offeringsWith incense, flowers, and perfumes
And I shall build a beautiful stūpa.
“ ‘I give a command to all my sons, Daughters, wives, prominent citizens, Ministers, head merchants, Heads of guilds, and many kṣatriyas
Of agarwood, sandalwood, cherry wood, And whatever is splendid, aromatic, and beautiful
Quickly make a bier with a caske
For the cremation of this bhikṣu.’
“Having heard the king, all the townspeople Brought the very best incense
Fashioned a bier, and placed The bhikṣu inside the casket
With agarwood, sandalwood, and magnolia, Valerian, fenugreek, and begonia
With flowers and perfumed garlands, And with sesame oil he was cremated.
“The bhikṣus collected A droṇa of his burned bones
The king created for them a stūpa And said, ‘I wish to make an offering to it.
Holding flowers, garlands, and perfumes, The king had others hold parasols, flags, and banners
And play the music of a thousand Quintillion musical instruments.
“The king came to the stūpa of the bhikṣu During each of the three periods of every day
And confessed absolutely whatever bad actions, however small, He may have committed in this life or throughout the three times
For nine hundred and fifty billion years He repented all his misdeeds
And from then on perfectly maintained correct conduct That was unimpaired, pure, unsullied, and stainless.
“For nine hundred and fifty billion years He kept the poṣadha vows
Then when my body was destroyed I fell into the terrible Avīci Hell
I had committed cruel actions out of desire And therefore I experienced many sufferings
I had displeased nine hundred And fifty billion buddhas.
“For nine hundred and fifty billion years I was blind throughout that time
For sixty-two quintillion eons In the past my eyes were destroyed
For many thousand quintillions Of eons, my eyes were gouged out
For countless millions of eons, My head, ears, feet, and hands were cut off.
“For another quintillion eons I was born into human live
In which I experienced suffering, Tormented for a long time by saṃsāra’s suffering
For a long time in saṃsāra I experienced The suffering created by my bad actions
Therefore those who wish for the peace of enlightenment Should commit no bad actions within the three realms.
“Although the supreme king confessed his past action, He was not freed from the evil that he had done
Because he had created such terrible karma, When he passed away he fell to the terrible Avīci hell.
For many endless eons my hands, feet, ears, and nose Were cut of
“While I was practicing bodhisattva conduct
and my eyes were forcefully gouged out While I was being hit with sticks and weapons.
“For the sake of enlightenment I gave away my body, head, and hands, My sons, my wives, my eyes, and my flesh
I joyfully gave away my feet and my hands, But even that did not exhaust my previous bad karma.
“Ānanda, that is how I practiced for endless eons. I saw countless buddhas endowed with glory
Those are the sufferings I experienced in the past While practicing this supreme bodhisattva conduct.
“The bodhisattva who maintains retention Remains loving, always unwavering and unshakable
Makes offerings to the buddhas, the purified gods of gods, And will never go to the lower realms.
“The one who wishes to become a buddha, a lord of the Dharma Who is adorned by the thirty-two signs
Should maintain unsullied, uninterrupted correct conduct, And be established in the retention of the Dharma that has been taught.
“I was at that time King Śūradatta. My sons were subsequently protectors of the Dharma
Padmottara was Supuṣpacandra, And Vasunandi was Śāntirāja with the ten strengths.
Conclusion of the thirty-sixth chapter, “Supuṣpacandra.
The heads of guilds, head merchants, and regional commanders All gained the ten strengths and freedom from the kleśas.”
“The host of women and the multitude of kṣatriyas, The leading citizens, the generals, and the ministers
He accomplished a vast benefit for beings. He passed into nirvāṇa and was a guide like a lamp. {i
“The Tathāgata was the principal human, A hero for the three worlds, the sole friend of being
And Vasunandi was Śāntirāja with the ten strengths.
Then the Bhagavān said to the youth Candraprabha
“Therefore, young man, bodhisattva mahāsattvas who wish to attain quickly the highest, complete enlightenment of perfect buddhahoo
should hear the samādhi, the revealed equality of the nature of all phenomena
should obtain it, study it, keep it, recite it, disseminate it, transmit it, chant it
meditate on it with unadulterated meditation, and in other ways make it widely known
They should also maintain the aggregate of correct conduct.
Thereupon the Bhagavān recited the following verses
“Bodhisattvas who maintain the aggregate of correct conduct, Who practice the conduct wishing for benefit
Will quickly go to the Abhirati buddha realm, Attain patience, and become kings of the Dharma.
“Therefore, be agreeable without malice, And always be pleasant to everyone
Having seen countless glorious buddhas You will reach enlightenment and become a lord of Dharma.
“Therefore, having heard this supreme benefit, And having seen bhikṣus who have excellent correct conduct
A wise person would always depend upon them And quickly become one who has attained the samādhi.
“If there were an incalculable, immeasurable treasure Filled with the seven precious jewels
Filled with the seven precious jewels
And if there were realms as numerous as the sands of the GangesThat were filled with those precious jewels,
“And if there were a bodhisattva who aspired to generosity, Who made a gift of these every single day
And made this gift continuously For as many eons as there are sands of the Ganges,
By the bodhisattva who, having heard this samādhi, Becomes a holder of this supreme treasure of the sugatas.
“That entire gift would not produce a fraction Of the accumulation of merit that is obtaine
A person who has the appropriate faith Should possess this supreme, stainless samādhi.
“This supreme, incomparable accumulation of merit Is the source of the immeasurable treasure of wisdom
“Bodhisattvas will have great riches Through possessing this stainless peace of samādhi
They will be a great ocean of the wealth of hearing the Dharma. The merit of this is beyond any measure.
“Bodhisattvas are said to be those who have become developed Through the supreme, inconceivable Dharma
The ones who teach this samādhi Never doubt enlightenment.
Have attained a supreme accumulation of merit, Which is inconceivable and beyond any measure.
“The ones who have become a teacher for the world, a guide, A buddha, self-arisen, having great compassion
“Therefore, young man, the bodhisattvas Who wish to make an offering to all the buddhas, The tathāgatas of the past and present
Should possess and recite this samādhi.
“Young man, if the amount of merit that is obtained By those who possess and recite this samādhi Were to become a phenomenon that has form
It would be too great to be contained within these many worlds.
“There is no one who can equal their wisdom Other than one who has heard this samādhi, Possesses it, recites it, and understands it, And seeks the unequaled enlightenment of buddhahood.
“In this billion-world universe there is not to be found Any being superior to them, Or who is their equal in the accumulation of merit And unrivaled, inconceivable wisdom.
But one cannot count the number of sūtras That are uninterruptedly taught by them.
“It may be possible to count all the sounds made by all creatures, By all beings who are living in the ten directions
“One may be able to count after many millions of eon
But one cannot know the extent of the sūtras they have accomplished.
All the beings who have appeared in the past Who have cherished their own bodies
The masses of water ever present In many millions of buddha realms
But one cannot know the extent of the sūtras they expound.
“One may be able to count, over millions of eons
All the grains of sand in the great ocean, And of sand in the rivers, ponds, and pits
And the thoughts that arise in those beings’ minds, But the sūtras constantly taught by such people cannot be counted.
“It may be possible to count the beings In as many buddha realms as there are Ganges sand
But it is not possible to know the limit of the sūtras Taught by those who are established in this samādhi.
“It may be possible to count the inhalations and exhalations Of all the beings that are in this buddha realm
But it is not possible to count the innumerable Hundreds of sūtras that they constantly teach.
“It may be possible to break apart and cut to pieces A billion-world universe and count its atoms
And the source of inconceivable virtues. It is a Dharma for which no end can be found.
“That which is taught by the wise, fearless ones Is the supreme sūtra among all sūtra
This is a vast, inconceivable aggregation of merit Through which buddha wisdom will quickly be attained.
“Therefore listen to this treasure of the Dharma From which trillions of sūtras arise
And practiced the supreme bodhisattva conduct Because I was seeking this samādhi.
The tathāgatas of the past and present
Should possess and recite this samādhi.
“This is the enlightenment of the tathāgatas. Young man, have faith in my words
The tathāgata does not speak untrue words; He does not tell lies, like beings do.
“Throughout countless hundreds of eons in the pas
I purified myself of believing in a sel
“They know how to teach the entire Dharma. They are skilled in etymologies, teaching, and the meaning of words
They have trained in the way of definitive knowledge, Have vast understanding, and constantly have joyful wisdom.
“They have analytic comprehension, cognize vast meaning, And they always know the conceivable and inconceivable
They know all the languages spoken on the earth And with those words teach without attachment to them.
“The dharmabhāṇakas teach unobstructedly. They teach all beings without attachment
They are skilled in the words of answering questions, And thus they know the ultimate truth.
“Without attachment they teach Countless millions of teachings from within one sūtra
Without attachment they are skilled in teaching and the meaning of words; Without attachment they teach in the middle of the assembly.
“The ones who are established in this samādhi Have become unshakable bodhisattvas
They have attained unique strength in the Dharma So that they can benefit many millions of beings.
“Just as Sumeru, unshakable and immovable, Cannot be shaken by the winds
In that way the dharmabhāṇaka bhikṣus Cannot be shaken by any opponent.
“It may be possible for the winds to shake Those mountains declared to be unshakabl
In the worlds of this billion-world universe
But the bhikṣus dwelling in emptiness cannot be shaken.
“The ones who are constantly engaged with emptiness Are those who certainly dwell with the buddhas
They know with certainty the emptiness of phenomena And cannot be swayed by any opponent.
They teach this peace, this samādhi, And are invincible and irreproachable.
“They cannot be shaken by any opponent
And they cannot be overcome by any opponent
“Having taught this peace, this samādhi, They have the realization of emptines
And they have no doubt in any of the Dharma, And continuously remain in endless wisdom.
“Attaining the strengths and the aspects of enlightenment Is not difficult for those who have obtained and recited this samādhi
It is not difficult to attain the inconceivable Discernments, miracles, and higher cognitions.
“Within created existences, with infinite wisdom It is not difficult for them to see the jinas
The ones who possess this samādhi will see Countless quintillions of buddhas.
“They will hear this peace, this samādhi, Directly from all of those jinas
They will reach the perfection of the discernments and powers, And will possess the supreme wisdom of the buddhas.
“If all the worlds in the billion-world universe Were to be filled with precious jewels
“And if all of the various, infinite realms Were covered with gold from the Jambu Rive
With the wealth of divine, supreme precious jewels From the depths to the summit of existence,
From the depths to the summit of existence, And all of it were given as an offering to the jinas,
“And if all of the various beings there are Made this offering to them for endless eons
Making this gift, giving constantly to the buddhas And creating this accumulation of generosity for the sake of enlightenment,
“And if there were a bhikṣu who rejoiced in emptiness And with hands together paid homage to those with the ten strengths
Then the former accumulation of generosity would not even be a fraction Of that of the bodhisattva who rejoiced in emptiness.
Develops vast faith, and performs acts of generosity In seeking the unequaled enlightenment of buddhahood.
Of a person with merit who has that attainment
“The supreme being has given the exampl
By someone who with a pleased mind obtains One four-line verse of this supreme excellent samādhi.
“All that generosity cannot be even a hundredth Of the accumulation of merit that is acquire
“Bodhisattvas who, wishing to benefit, practice generosity, But who have not heard this peace, this stainless samādhi
Will not quickly attain the wisdom of buddhahood; But having heard it they will quickly attain the wisdom of buddhahood.
“They have obtained such a treasure as infinite realms That are as numerous as the Ganges sands
“Bodhisattvas who rejoice in this lineage Of those who, having attained this level of supreme peace, Have heard the stainless samādhi, will gain understandin
And will quickly attain the wisdom of buddhahood.
Filled with precious jewels Both human and divine.
That are as numerous as the Ganges sands, Filled with precious jewelsBoth human and divine.
“Bodhisattvas who obtain this samādhi And who always insatiably study i
Have gained a wealth, a treasure of precious jewels. That is a treasure difficult to acquire.
“Someone with knowledge will never rejoice In gaining a kingdom that has vast wealth
But bodhisattvas are overjoyed and thrilled To have obtained this stainless samādhi.
“They become constant holders of The Dharma of all the omniscient buddha
And thus they hold the supreme way of the Dharma During the final age of degeneration
They are holders of the treasure of the Dharma and great realization; They are holders of the treasure of omniscience
They bring happiness to quintillions Of beings through the words of the Dharma.
“They are people who have gained the wealth of correct conduct, Who have understanding and the wealth of the trainings
They maintain the discipline of correct conduct And they rejoice in seedlings of the tree of the Dharma
They are holders of the precious orange Dharma robes And they are constantly happy in homelessness
They are unequaled in benefiting beings And they are established in omniscience.
“They are tamed and are tamers of untamed beings. They are constantly in the state of being tamed
They are tamed and follow those who are perfectly tamed. They have pacified senses—perfectly pacified
They constantly awaken with the sound of the Dharma Those beings who are asleep, who are fast asleep
And having awakened those beings they establish them In the supremely good jewel of the Dharma.
“They become lords of generosity Who are constantly giving freely
They are wise and do not associate with the envious, And they always rejoice in great generosity
When they see poor and suffering beings They content them with possessions
They are constantly focused on omniscience In order to bring benefit and happiness to beings.
“They constantly train in wisdom And beat loudly the drum of the Dharma
They cut through the creepers of doubt in all beings And are constantly engaged in wisdom
And they teach millions of sūtras.
They are stainless, well-learned holders of the Dharma. They are wise and have understanding. They sit upon a seat within the assembl
And they teach millions of sūtras.
They sit upon a seat within the assembl
“They are greatly learned and hold what they have learned; They are holders of the Dharma of the buddhas
They are holders of the treasure that is the Dharma And they rejoice in the treasury of the Sage
They have become possessors of immense wisdom And they are constantly giving rise to vast joy
They teach the peace of the supreme Dharma, Which is subtle, liberating, and difficult to see.
“They know what is Dharma and what is not. They are gentle, wise, and remain within the Dharma
They are unequaled teachers of the kingdom of the Dharma And constantly practice the supreme, unequaled Dharma
They are devoted to the excellent Dharma And maintain veneration of the guru
They dwell in the supreme city of the Dharma. They who are wise raise up the banner of the Dharma.
“When they see beings who are proud, Arrogant, and constantly heedless
Who are on a destructive, wrong path, Who are following the path of saṃsāra
They have vast love and compassion for them While remaining in joy and equanimity
They teach them the supreme eightfold path Of peace that is difficult to see.
Who have fallen into the great ocean And into the rivers of saṃsāra
“They build the strong ship of the Dharm
To save and carry the many being
Armored in the strengths, powers, and aspects of enlightenment, They set out upon the ship of the Dharma
And they always easily and without fear Bring beings to the far shore.
“They practice the discipline of the supreme medicine. They are physicians who possess the supreme medicine
They have perfectly attained liberation through knowledge and wisdom, And they dispense the medicine of the good Dharma
When they see sick beings Afflicted by many illnesses
They give them the medicine of the Dharma And they heal them through the Dharma.
“They are lords of the world, sovereigns of speech, And they defeat their adversaries in debate
They shine with the light of omniscience. They have understanding and are on the level of the highest wisdom
They are heroes with the strength of wisdom that defeats other strengths. They are praised by those who have wisdom
With their wisdom they bring happiness to many Trillions of beings, establishing them in the Dharma.
They are heroes with the strength of wisdom that defeats other strengths. They are praised by those who have wisdom
With their wisdom they bring happiness to many Trillions of beings, establishing them in the Dharma.
“They are the masters, the leaders of merchant caravans, Who are dedicated to protecting beings from misfortune
When they see beings bewildered on a path of jewels Who are constantly caught in the trap of Māra
They explain to them the supreme path Of constant peace, happiness, and emancipation
Through that path of wisdom The wise ones guide many billions of beings.
“They are a sanctuary, they are a shelter, They are a refuge; they are eyes and a lamp
They give freedom from fear to those who are afraid. They constantly bring relief to those who are fearful
When they know of beings in great suffering, Of beings who have been completely blind from birth
With the precious teachings on correct training They shine the light of the Dharma.
“They are the best artisans in the world, Who benefit beings with their craft
They always make beings happy Through being well trained in their craft
They who are established in enlightenmen
They know the motivations and conduct of other beings And they know what should be said to them
“They have wisdom, the perfection of the highest wisdom, And they are wise concerning the aspirations of beings
Through their speaking words of wisdom Millions of beings attain the sight of the supreme Dharma
They have perfect conduct, patience, and samādhi, And they know the aspirations of beings.
They have attained perfection in the supreme trainin
Have realization and give sight to the world.
And are completely skilled, with wondrous attainment in the world
“They never cease longing to listen To the supreme, unequaled Dharma of the buddhas
They have perfected conduct, patience, and samādhi, And have heard the profound Dharma
They send down a rain of methods for liberation, Satisfying beings with the rain of the Dharma.
They never cease wishing to teach The precious Dharma of peace
The realized ones cut through their doubts And bring them happiness through the Dharma
Thinking, ‘We will listen to the true, honest path Of the supreme jewel of the excellent Dharma,
“However many beings, wise ones, Come to them for the sake of the Dharma
Conclusion of the thirty-seventh chapter, “Teaching the Aspect of Correct Conduct.
Has the inexhaustible wealth of the buddhas And an extremely vast ocean of wisdom.”
Any human who possesses This unequaled, stainless samādh
They are guides for all the beings Who are present throughout the ten directions.
One could not finish praising their past conduct
“If one were to describe the entirety of their benefits, Even if one spoke with eloquenc
For many billions of eons
Their sight is free of impediment And they see many forms in the ten directions
They see many quintillions of buddhas, As numerous as the sands of the Ganges
“They have attained perfect miraculous powers And are always traveling to hundreds of realms
They are heroes, leaders who have destroyed Māra And realized the peace of enlightenment.
They are peaceful, tamed, tranquil, have the power of wisdom, And are established in superior wisdom
Just as no one can know the path That a bird has flown through the air
“Even billions of māras cannot know The minds of those wise ones
They have attained the perfection of the highest wisdomAnd they give the teachings of the path.
Through their speaking words of wisdomMillions of beings attain the sight of the supreme Dharma
They know the motivations and conduct of other beings And they know what should be said to them
Then the Bhagavān said to the youth Candraprabha
meditate on it with unadulterated meditation, promulgate it, and make it widely known to others
preserve it, recite it to others, promote it, proclaim it, chant it
should hear this revealed equality of the nature of all phenomena samādhi and obtain it, understand it
Therefore, young man, bodhisattva mahāsattva
and wish to attain quickly the highest, complete enlightenment of perfect buddhahood
who wish for these and countless other wonderful and marvelous bodhisattva qualities
Thereupon the Bhagavān, to explain what this meant, related an account of the past by chanting the following extensive verses to the youth Candraprabha
“Young man, listen to me as I tell you How I practiced for thousands of eons
Seeking this sublime, excellent samādhi, I made offerings to hundreds of thousands of buddhas.
“In that way, after countless eons had passed, As numerous as the grains of sand in a hundred worlds
When such a number had passed by There appeared a jina named Gaṇeśvara.
“There were no fewer than six hundred billion In the saṅgha of that jina
All were without ouflows, their kleśas had come to an end, They had dhyāna, and were established in the eight liberations.
“At that time the entire surface of this earth Was pleasant and had good harvests, and no disorder
All the people were joyful and happy, And the happiness of humanity was widespread.
“Everyone possessed the strength of merit. They were attractive and beloved
All were rich and possessed much wealth, And physically they experienced divine pleasures.
“They were gentle, with good discipline and few kleśas. They enjoyed the strength of patience and had good features
They were like devas within the paradises. They possessed the qualities of correct conduct and understanding.
Apply yourself to those three points.
and generating the roots of goodness out of longing for the wisdom of the buddhas and not out of desire for reaching worldly happiness
What are the three points? They are ending the kleśas, mastering merit
and apply themselves to making offerings to the buddhas. “They should apply themselves to three points
long for the Dharma, possess the Dharma, engage in the Dharma in a way that accords with the Dharma
They should be dedicated to the Dharma
“They should meditate on the strength of patience, rely on patience, and promulgate patience
“At that time there was a sovereign, A king named Varapuṣpasa
He had no fewer than five hundred sons, All endowed with mindfulness and realization.
To that compassionate one, Six hundred thousand parks, All beautified by flowers and fruits,
“That king and his sons offered to the Jina
“And a hundred thousand various parks With thousands of walkways, seats, and beds
And with a trillion Dharma robes Spread on the ground where they walked and sat.
“Thus the king with great faith Presented to that Sugat
In many thousands of ways Whatever renunciants would enjoy.
“That king, who followed the path Of the ten good actions
Came to see the Guide, accompanied by A hundred thousand trillion beings.
“Holding flowers, perfumes, and incense, Parasols, banners, and musical instruments
He made offerings to that Jina, And with his hands in homage sat before him.
“The thousands of bhikṣus were pleased, As were the devas, humans, asuras, and yakṣas, wondering
‘The Jina to whom these offerings were made, will he give a prophecy? Will this lord of humans teach the Dharma?’
“The self-arisen one knew their thoughts And knew the king’s supreme motivation
That his aspiration was to the further shore, And therefore taught him the samādhi of peace.
“When the Sugata’s voice came forth The earth and its forests shook
A rain of flowers fell from the sky And hundreds of lotuses appeared out of the ground.
“The Teacher had trained in the words and their meaning, And the Guide, knowing the king’s thoughts, gave a prophecy
That lord of men taught the samādhi of peace. Listen to these words and their meaning.
“ ‘All existences are nonexistent: they are concepts, They are insubstantial, they are like mirages and illusions
They are like lightning and clouds, unstable and empty. All are without a self, without a being, without a soul.
“ ‘Primordially empty, phenomena do not come. They have not come, they are not present, and they have no location
They have not come, they are not present, and they have no location. They are always without essence; they have the nature of an illusion
They are all pure—completely pure like space.
“ ‘They are neither blue, nor yellow, nor white. Those are just names, vacuous, with a nature that is just sound
They are devoid of mind; their nature is not mind. They are momentary and are devoid of sound.
“ ‘Words do not go anywhere if spoken. Words are not diminished if not spoken
Words do not go in any direction. Words do not come from anywhere.
“ ‘Words do not perish, cease, or end, Whether they are spoken or unspoken
Words are said to be always unceasing. Those who know that will be unceasing.
“ ‘In the past, hundreds of thousands of buddhas Have taught the Dharma hundreds of thousands of times
But the Dharma does not cease; words do not cease, And as there is no arising, there is no cessation.
“ ‘Those who know the unceasing Dharma Will always know the unceasing Dharma
Having taught a hundred thousand sūtras, They know that the Dharma is devoid of words.
“ ‘The Dharma that the jinas have taught Is unceasing and therefore is not seen
The Dharma is primordially without a self, without a being. Although it is taught, it does not cease.
“ ‘The wise teach using all words, But their minds are not captivated by the words
All words are like echoes on a mountain, So therefore never have attachment to words.
“ ‘The Dharma is taught through illusory words And all those words cease in that instant
That which is the characteristic of those words Is the characteristic that all phenomena have.
“ ‘All phenomena have no characteristics, are devoid of characteristics; They all have no characteristics, and are pure of characteristics
They are always empty, and they are as pure as space. In brief, they cannot be enumerated.
“ ‘They are devoid of “composite” or “noncomposite,” And the sages have no concepts concerning them
They have arrived at the noncomposite in all the existences of beings And are always devoid of contrived views.
“ ‘The one whose mind is at rest in that nature Is always without desire, anger, and ignorance
The one who knows phenomena in that way Becomes strong with the strength of samādhi.
The one who knows phenomena in that way Becomes strong with the strength of samādhi.
“ ‘Just as echoes are created through conditions In caves, mountains, and canyons
All that is composite is known to be the same: The entire world is like an illusion, a mirage.
“ ‘This samādhi of peace is taught by one Who has the strength of wisdom, the qualities of the Dharma
Who with the strength of knowledge has the higher cognitions of the sages, And who has skill in methods of speech and knows the definitions of words.
“ ‘The appellations that are spoken are merely appellations; Within saṃsāra there is no end to be found
That which was in the past is devoid of characteristics, And one should be certain that the future is the same.
“ ‘Through engaging in creating karma There will be the best and the worst
Knowing that all things are always empty, Empty by nature, and that all things are without a self,
“ ‘The Jina thus teaches the relative Dharma: Regard the composite and noncomposite in that way
There truly is no self and no human. That is the characteristic of all beings.
“ ‘Good and bad karma are indestructible. Whatever I have created I will have to experience
The result of one’s actions cannot be transferred to others. Nothing is experienced without a cause.
“ ‘All existences are illusory and powerless, As insubstantial and insignificant as foam
They are always empty, like illusions and mirages. They are taught through words, but are devoid of them.
“ ‘Understand in that way without having pride. Have correct conduct but without attachment
With the power of patience have no conceptualization, And, practicing in that way, rest in equanimity.’
“The king understood the Dharma That was taught by the Jina
When the king had heard this Dharma from the Jina, Together with his entourage he took up the training.
“The king, having heard this samādhi, Joyous and happy, said these words
‘This samādhi you have taught is excellent And I bow down to your feet.’
“Eighty thousand beings who were ther
Had heard this excellent nature of phenomena, This teaching on the ultimate truth, And attained the acceptance of birthlessness.
Had heard this excellent nature of phenomena, This teaching on the ultimate truth, And attained the acceptance of birthlessness.
“A person has no origination or cessation, And likewise these phenomena have always been empty
When that is known there is no loss, And the king attained the acceptance of birthlessness.
“The king renounced his kingdom And entered homelessness in that Jina’s teaching
And all five hundred princes, no less, Followed him into the homeless state.
“When the king and his princes had entered homelessness, Many thousands of other beings also at that tim
Entered homelessness in the presence of the Sugata, Seeking to receive the Dharma of that Jina.
“For a full two thousand years The Jina taught the Dharma
And the king, his sons, and the people Practiced the Dharma for those two thousand years.
“And then at a later time The Jina passed into nirvāṇa
The Jina’s śrāvakas also passed away And his Dharma became diminished.
“At that time there was a prince, Puṇyamatin, who had faith and trust
There was a bhikṣu connected with his family Who taught to him this samādhi of peace.
“The bhikṣu was gentle and mild, Honored by a hundred thousand beings
Was followed by a billion devas, And was praised when he came to the city.
“He had recollection and realization. He was disciplined, compassionate, and he delighted in correct conduct
His lovely voice was not harsh but gentle, And he had attained the power of knowledge of the sensory constituents.
“That bhikṣu was named Yaśaḥprabha. He received a billion Dharma robes
Unable to endure the strength of his merit A thousand monks became jealous of him.
“He had the strength of merit and the strength of body, The strength of wisdom and the strength of miracles
The strength of correct conduct, the strength of samādhi, And the strength of the Dharma, and therefore was a superior bhikṣu.
“He delighted and was beloved by people. Bhikṣus, upāsakas, and bhikṣuṇīs
Those beings who had faith in the Jina’s teaching, Made offerings to him and honored him.
Those beings who had faith in the Jina’s teaching, Made offerings to him and honored him.
“The one who was the king’s son was there, Puṇyamatin, who had constant faith and trust
When he knew that many bhikṣus had wickedness in mind, He became a protector for his teacher.
“Five hundred thousand people
Armored and holding swords and clubs, Constantly surrounded the bhikṣ
Who taught the conduct that is endlessly correct.
“He taught to his followers the Dharma That phenomena are empty, with no self and no soul
Those who were fixated on objects and were attached to a self Did not approve of the bhikṣu’s teaching.
“Those bhikṣus rose up and took up weapons, As they did not approve of emptiness and peace
They said, ‘What this bhikṣu is teaching is not the Dharma, It will be meritorious if we kill him.’
“The bhikṣu was not afraid when he saw their weapons
He was aware of the emptiness of phenomena, That there was no being or man there to be killed, That these phenomena were as insubstantial as plaster.
“The bhikṣu placed his hands together upon his head And spoke these words of homage to the jinas
‘Through the truth of the emptiness of phenomena May these weapons become coral tree flowers!’
“He possessed the conduct and discipline of the Sage And as soon as he spoke those words and no others
The earth and its forests shook And the weapons became coral tree flowers.
“At that time, the bhikṣus who believed in objective reality And who were holding weapons became ill-shaped in body
They could not approach any nearer And became frightened and greatly amazed.
“Those who had faith and trust in the Lord of sages, Those who delighted in emptiness and peace
They cried out ‘A la la!’ a thousand times, And presented the bhikṣu with hundreds of lengths of cloth.
“The bhikṣu had love for the
‘I will practice bodhisattva conduct For the sake of those beings who are angry with me.’
And said to all the people before him
“Then for no fewer than eighty years He taught emptiness, the treasure of the jinas
And the son of the king protected him from From the thousands of bhikṣus who were his adversaries.
“During that time he was despised, And his bhikṣus became few in number
Evil things were heard said about him, But the power of his patience never declined.
Evil things were heard said about him, But the power of his patience never declined.
“Then at another time he accomplished A great benefit for hundreds of beings
He recollected countless Dharma teachings And at that time Puṇyamatin felt great joy.
“He respectfully honored the bhikṣu And then Puṇyamatin said to him
‘No one at all should do anything That is displeasing to my teacher.’
“He replied, ‘Young prince, listen to me. It is through the power of patience that buddhas appear
When someone speaks unpleasantly to me, Toward him I feel a great love.’
“I was that bhikṣu Yaśaḥprabha, Who meditated on patience in previous live
Those were the words Bhagavān Śākyamuni spoke.
Throughout a hundred thousand eons.
“The prince Puṇyamatin, who was The protector of Bhikṣu Yaśaḥprabha
Has been my companion in thousands of lifetimes, And I prophesy that he will be Buddha Maitreya.
“The one who made offerings to the teacher Gaṇeśvara, The one who had built a perfect monastery
The one who was previously known as Varapuṣpasa Became the Lord of humans Padmottara.
“In that way, for many endless eons I held the Dharma of the jinas
In the past, I accomplished the power of patience. Young man, having heard this, follow my example.
“After I have passed into nirvāṇa, in future times When the Dharma is being destroye
Bhikṣus will follow the thoughts of tīrthikas And will forsake my Dharma of peace.
“They will be arrogant, conceited, wicked, and reckless. They will associate with sinners and be greedy for food
They will be attached to their robes and alms bowls, greedy for cloth, And be devoted to acquisition and forsake the Dharma.
“They will be aggressive, fierce, and ungrateful. They will come from vile families, poor families
Enter homelessness within my teaching And will reject the Dharma of peace.
“They will have Māra’s thoughts and will be beings in darkness. They will be under the power of desire and have strong attachment
They will be under the power of ignorance and be ignorant fools, And they will not delight in the Dharma of emptiness and peace.
They will be under the power of desire and have strong attachment. They will be under the power of ignorance and be ignorant fools
And they will not delight in the Dharma of emptiness and peace.
“The bhikṣus, bhikṣuṇīs, and laypeople, With wicked minds, will be avaricious and stupid
They will always become overpowered in that way, And in the later times they will reject enlightenment.
“Listen, young man, to these my words. A bhikṣu should always dwell in solitude
Those who long for peace and emptiness Should possess this Dharma of the jinas.
“The one who possesses this samādhi Has practiced homelessness in my teaching
Is ordained as a bhikṣu and practices poṣadha, And eats free of craving, without attachment to food.
Forsaking all concern for life and body, Meditate on emptiness, upon perfect peace
Meditating with dedication, complete dedication. Like a deer, live always in the forests.
“Always make offerings to the jinas With parasols, banners, and with dwellings
Make offerings to stūpas of the sugatas And quickly attain this samādhi.
“Develop the aspiration for the state of enlightenment. Beautify the stūpas of the sugatas
Adorning them with gold and covering them with silver, And have beautiful images from precious materials made.
“Make a commitment to attain enlightenment And make all the good offerings that there are in the world
Of all that is pleasing to devas and humans, And honor the buddhas with desirable offerings.
“See as the true nature, too, all the lords of humans; For within the worlds in all ten directions
The jinas who are present and those who have passed away Have come to be buddhas through the true nature.
“Have the aspiration to be generous to all. Have pure conduct and a stable mind
Delight in patience and always delight in kindness, And know that all phenomena are empty.
“Develop diligence confidently and fearlessly. Delight in dhyāna and delight in solitude
Develop wisdom, completely pure wisdom, And quickly become compassionate.
And quickly become compassionate.
And quickly become compassionate.
“The body has no essence; it is like foam. It creates suffering, and is putrid and foul smelling
Know all aggregates to be insubstantial And quickly attain the highest wisdom.
Overcome ignorance with the power of wisdom, And attain the enlightenment praised by the jinas.
“Always pacify desire through contemplating ugliness, Overcome anger with the power of patience
“Never hold views that give rise to bad actions: That there is a self, an individual, and a soul
Know that all phenomena are empty And quickly reach the highest enlightenment.
“Never have yearning for possessions. Do not be distressed if you do not obtain alms
Be unmoved by praise or blame, And be as unshakable as Mount Meru.
“With veneration seek the Dharma; Having heard it then become that
Maintain the conduct of the jinas And quickly go to the realm of Sukhāvatī.
“Be even-minded toward all beings. Do not have likes or dislikes in your mind
Do not long for gain and fame, And quickly become a buddha, a lord of sages.
So that the beings who hear about the qualities will have faith And you cause them to aspire to the qualities of a buddha.
“Always describe the qualities of the buddhas Correctly through their definitions
“Always venerate your teacher, Your parents, and similarly all beings
Do not fall under the power of pride, And attain the thirty-two signs of a great being.
“Avoid all crowds without exception, And always delight in solitude
Always be pleasant, disciplined, and peaceful. Be beneficial for yourself and beneficial to other beings.
“Cultivate kindness and compassion, And always aspire to rejoicing and equanimity
Always follow the teaching of the jinas And quickly become one who benefits the world.
“Never gain wicked friends; Have friends who are noble
Those who long for emptiness and peace Are established in the path to supreme enlightenment.
Those who long for emptiness and peace Are established in the path to supreme enlightenment.
“Do not train on the level of the śrāvakas, And do not delight in their practice
Do not turn your mind away from the buddha qualities And quickly become a buddha, a lord of jinas.
“Always speak pure, true words. Do not speak harshly or tell lies
Always speak gently and pleasantly And obtain the speech of the world’s teacher.
“Do not be concerned with your life and body. Do not criticize others and praise yourself
Accomplish your own good qualities And have equanimity toward the conduct of others.
“Always delight in the liberations and emptiness. Do not make prayers for rebirth in the realms of beings
Abandon all concepts without exception And always abide in a state without concepts.
“Reject the extremes at all times. Do not follow nihilism or eternalism
Always know that everything is dependent, And in that way become such a teacher.
“Reject delighting in the pleasures of desires, Reject the stains of rigid anger
Reject all the darkness of ignorance, And become a lion among men, delighting in peace.
“Always see that the permanent is impermanent. Be liberated from the happiness and suffering of all existences
See that self and purity are nonself and impure. Meditate and become a lord of men.
“The jinas, the lamps for the world, Taught whatever Dharma would be beneficial
They defeated the armies of the māras And attained the supreme, highest enlightenment.
“I have taught the good qualities that there are And described hundreds of faults
Reject the faults and practice the qualities. Then, young man, in this life you will become a buddha.”
Conclusion of the thirty-eighth chapter, “Yaśaḥprabha.” Chapter . Restraint of the Body, Speech, and Mind 
Then the Bhagavān said to the youth Candraprabha
Then the Bhagavān said to the youth Candraprabha
“Therefore, young man, you should train by thinking, ‘I shall have self-control through physical restraint.
“Young man, what is meant by physical restraint
“That which is called ‘physical restraint’ is the physical restraint through which bodhisattva mahāsattvas attain the eighty secondary signs of a great being
is the physical restraint through which bodhisattva mahāsattvas attain the ten strengths
the four fearlessnesses, and the eighteen distinct qualities of a buddha
is the physical restraint through which bodhisattva mahāsattvas attain the three doorways to liberation
What are these three? They are emptiness, the absence of attributes, and the absence of aspiration
They attain those three doorways to liberation
is the physical restraint through which bodhisattva mahāsattvas attain the four great brahmavihāras
What are the four great brahmavihāras? They are great love, great compassion, great joy, and great equanimity
They attain those four great brahmavihāras
is the physical restraint through which bodhisattva mahāsattvas attain the four discernments
What are the four discernments? They are the discernment of meaning
the discernment of phenomena, the discernment of definitions, and the discernment of eloquence
They attain those four discernments
They attain those four discernments
That which is called ‘physical restraint’ is the physical restraint through which bodhisattva mahāsattvas are free of attachment to all phenomena
“Young man, that which is called ‘physical restraint
is the physical restraint through which bodhisattva mahāsattvas attain the thirty-two primary signs of a great being
What are the thirty-seven aspects of enlightenment? They are the four kinds of mindfulness, the four correct exertions
the four bases for miraculous powers, the five powers, the five strengths, the seven aspects of enlightenment
and the noble eightfold path. They attain those thirty-seven aspects of enlightenment
that which is called ‘physical restraint
“Young man
is the physical restraint through which bodhisattva mahāsattvas attain the thirty-seven aspects of enlightenment
is the physical restraint through which bodhisattva mahāsattvas attain the state of great compassion
attain the state of great equanimity, and attain easeful examination and analysis of phenomena
“Moreover, young man
is the physical restraint through which bodhisattva mahāsattvas desist from killing
taking what is not given, not maintaining celibacy, lying
slandering, harsh speech, idle talk, avarice
malice, and wrong views; desist from fraud in weights, fraud in measures
and fraud in wealth; desist from capturing, binding, restraining
beating, threatening, severing, impaling
and terrorizing; desist from desire and greed; desist from wild hand movements
wild leg movements, and unrestrained movements of the legs and arms
and desist from wicked habits of body, speech, or mind so that, like palm trees that have had their tops cut off, they will not arise again in the future
“Therefore, young man, understand this teaching in the following way
a teacher of devas and humans, a buddha, and a bhagavān
there appeared in the worl
a knower of the world, an unsurpassable guide who tamed beings
the the Bhagavān, the tathāgata, the arhat, the perfectly enlightened Buddha Jñānaprabhāsa, who was perfect in wisdom and conduct, a sugata
Young man, in the past, innumerable, vast, immeasurable, inconceivable, unfathomable countless eons ago, at that time and in those days
“At that time and in those days, the lifespan of the Bhagavān, the tathāgata, the arhat, the perfectly enlightened Buddha Jñānaprabhāsa was six hundred million years
He had a śrāvaka saṅgha of six hundred million arhats
There were countless bodhisattva mahāsattvas who held the supreme Dharma
“Young man, at that time and in those days, there was a king named Viveśacintin
King Viveśacintin came with eight hundred million people into the presence of the Tathāgata
When he arrived he bowed his head down to the feet of the Tathāgata
circumambulated the Bhagavān three times, and sat down in one place
Once King Viveśacintin had sat down in one place, he honored the Tathāgata
“Then the Bhagavān, the tathāgata, the arhat, the perfectly enlightened Buddha Jñānaprabhāsa
knowing the superior aspiration of King Viveśacintin and his followers
taught them from this Dharma teaching by chanting the following verses on entering through the doorway of the samādhi of physical restraint
“ ‘Just as space and the sky are pure, Ultimately pure, and with a clear nature
The restraint of the body, too, is pure, And cannot be taught in verse.
“ ‘This physical restraint is devoid and empty, And those are also the two characteristics of the body
Just like space it is without characteristics. That is taught to be the characteristic of the body’s restraint.
That is taught to be the characteristic of the body’s restraint.
“ ‘Those who know that characteristic of the body’s restraint Will never be ones without restraint
How can those without activity have a field of conduct? Those who are immaculate have no birth.
“ ‘One cannot have this restraint while pursuing desires Through yearning for forms and enjoyments
Not knowing the wickedness of existence, One cannot know this restraint of the body.
“ ‘There will never be birth For those who have immaculate restraint
They have qualities like those of the arhats, Which cannot easily be known by tīrthikas.
“ ‘Those who are terrified of the three realms Will not develop desire for sensual gratification
They who do not wish for the pleasures of a king Will know this kind of restraint of the body.
“ ‘The restraint of the body is said to have this meaning. It is a meaning that cannot be taught through words
The one who knows this way of the Dharma Is firmly established in this restraint.
“ ‘I teach the meaning to those who are engaged with the meaning, To those wise ones intent upon the way of the meaning
Those engaged in the meaning shun that which is not the meaning And are always firmly established in that restraint.
“ ‘How can one know the meaning That is spoken of in the teaching of the jinas
Those who know the nature of that way of meaning Are said to be established in the restraint of the body.
“ ‘Those who know insubstantiality, emptiness, The absence of a self, and the absence of attribute
Will never be without that restraint, And in that way they will train in correct certainty.
“ ‘They know that existents are nonexistent And do not give rise to attachment to existents
They will never give rise to attachment to any existent And will reach the samādhi of the absence of attributes.
“ ‘Those who know that phenomena have no self, Have an empty nature and the characteristic of clarity
Will never be without that restraint, And thus will have definite correct understanding.
“ ‘Those who know the five skandhas to be empty Know their empty nature that is devoid of a self
They will never be without that restraint In any physical activity that they perform.
“ ‘Those who focus on attributes, who are without restraint, Who are constantly fixed in the conception of a self
Those beings who are attached to forms Are overcome by unrestrained desires.
Those beings who are attached to formsAre overcome by unrestrained desires.
“ ‘Those who are trained in the true, highest point, The gentle ones who have realized emptiness
Are never overcome by the arising of desires That cause the unrestrained to go to the lower realms.
“ ‘Just as all the ants together cannot shake And cannot move great Mount Sumeru
Even divine forms cannot unsettle A wise one who is correctly trained.
“ ‘Someone may be able to paint a picture on space, Someone may be able to grasp space in his hand
But desire, anger, or millions of māras Will not be able to unsettle such a wise one.
“ ‘Someone may be able to catch an echo, A stone may be able to float on the water
But no one can see the thoughts of someone Who is trained in this restraint of the body.
“ ‘Someone may be able to catch all the sounds In the entire world and put them in a box
But they cannot know whether someone who maintains The restraint of the body is or is not maintaining it.
“ ‘Someone may be able to catch the light from the disc of the sun, Or the thunder and lightning that burst from the clouds
But they cannot know the nature of the body Of someone who has trained in the restraint of the body.
“ ‘Someone may be able to catch in a trap or a net The circle of wind that moves through the four directions
But they cannot come to know the body Of someone who is established in the restraint of the body.
“ ‘This is not the domain of activity of beings. It is the domain of a wise one who has a controlled mind
It is the domain of activity of someone with restraint of the body Who, like space, is unstained by worldly qualities.
“ ‘Someone may be able to see the tracks of all the creatures That move through the sky in all four directions
But they would not be able to know the extent Of the fields of activity of such a person’s mind or body.
“ ‘Those who are established in this restraint of the body Do not have any of the various kinds of kleśas
They have eliminated even the minor kleśas, And thus are trained in the restraint of the body.
“ ‘They cannot be harmed by weapons or by fire, And in that way their bodies are ungraspable
“ ‘They cannot be harmed by weapons or by fire, And in that way their bodies are ungraspable
They remain in the peace, perfect peace, of samādhi, And in that way they are trained in the restraint of the body.
“ ‘Thus established, they have no fear, they have no terror, Their minds are undisturbed, and they feel no envy
They who are thus trained in the restraint of the body Have become liberated from all misfortune.
“ ‘They are not afraid of poison or weapons; They are not afraid in the middle of fire or water
They who are thus trained in the restraint of the body Have become liberated from all misfortune.
“ ‘They are without fear among thieves, Swindlers, criminals, and poisonous snakes
“ ‘Those who are freed from fear do not become frightened. As there is no fear, there is no instability
In this way they have no conception of a self And, liberated from that concept, they have no fear.
How can those who are unshakable feel fear? Even millions of māras cannot disturb them.
“ ‘The one who benefits bodhisattvas Explains and teaches the practice of restraint
Even millions of māras cannot disturb The one who has trained in this restraint of the body.
“ ‘Unimpeded knowledge of the entire Dharma, The complete eighty secondary signs
And the thirty-two primary signs of a pure mind Are not difficult to obtain for one established in restraint.
“ ‘Whoever wishes to realize the qualities of a buddha, Which are inconceivable and beyond measure
Should train in this kind of restraint of the body And become a shrine for the entire world.
“ ‘Whoever wishes for these qualities of a great sage, For the ten inconceivable strengths of a buddha
Should train in this restraint of the body. The strengths are not difficult to attain for one thus trained.
“ ‘The eighteen distinct qualities of a buddha, In which the jinas are established, Are not difficult to attain for someone Who has trained in this restraint of the body.
“ ‘The seven limbs of enlightenment of the great sages, And their discernments and bases of miraculous powers, Are not difficult to attain for someone Who has trained in this restraint of the body.
Who has trained in this restraint of the body.
“ ‘The four brahmavihāras and the dhyānas, The doorways to liberation that have been taught
And easeful examination and analysis Are not difficult to attain for one established in restraint.
“ ‘One who is established in this supreme restraint Dwells in compassion and also in equanimity
And likewise practices the conduct of supreme love, And has the motivation to benefit all beings.
“ ‘Maintaining mindfulness and correct exertion, The five strengths and five powers of the great sages
And the eight branches of the supreme path of the noble ones Are not difficult to attain for one trained in restraint of the body.
“ ‘Also, the other sublime qualities of a buddha, Which are inconceivable and beyond measure
Are all not difficult to attain for someone Who has trained in this restraint of the body.’
“When he had listened to this restraint of the body, The eminent king gained exceptional accomplishment
He felt the highest joy and unequaled happiness And entered homelessness in that Jina’s teaching.
“For a hundred million years he entered homelessness And practiced a pure and perfect celibacy
He also meditated on the four brahmavihāras In order to benefit the world and its devas.
“Having meditated well on the brahmavihāras, He saw eight hundred million buddhas
And even more, as numerous as the Ganges sands, And he practiced this supreme celibacy.
“He entered homelessness in all of their teachings And practiced a pure and perfect celibacy
He became an excellent bhikṣu dharmabhāṇaka Who was very learned and had eloquent speech.
“Knowing well this restraint of the body, He had unimpaired conduct, faultless conduct
Pure conduct, and unalloyed conduct, And maintained noble conduct that was immaculate.
“If you think, young man, that Viśeṣacintin, The eminent king of that time, was someone else
Do not see him as being anyone else: That was me while I was practicing bodhisattva conduct.
That was me while I was practicing bodhisattva conduct.
“Therefore, young man, follow my teaching, And maintain this restraint of the body
Teach it, too, to millions of other beings, And before long you will become the same as me.”
Then the Bhagavān said to Candraprabha
“Young man, you should train by thinking, ‘I will practice completely pure physical conduct in that way.
Why is that
Because, young man, the bodhisattva mahāsattvas who have completely pure physical conduct have no fear of the hells
of rebirth as an animal, of the realm of Yama, or of any other lower existences
They have no fear of water, and no fear of fire, of poison, of weapons, of lions
of tigers, of bears, of elephants, of bulls, or of humans and nonhumans
“Young man, bodhisattva mahāsattvas who have completely pure physical conduc
can place the great billion-world universe on the palm of their han
and throw it up to the height of one palm tree, two palm trees, three palm trees, four palm trees, five palm trees, six palm trees, seven palm trees
or as high as they wish to throw it
“Moreover, young man, bodhisattva mahāsattvas who have completely pure physical conduc
attain the perfection of supreme miraculous powers
They have ripened the bases of miraculous powers, possess pure merit, and have detachment
They can go anywhere, have attained this samādhi
have completely perfected immaculate merit, and have unimpeded vision of all worlds
and therefore have gained miraculous powers
What is this attainment of miraculous powers
Through miraculous powers there is the perfection of the accomplishment of aspirations and success
“What kind of attainment of miraculous powers are these miraculous powers that are spoken of
Bodhisattva mahāsattvas who possess miraculous powers experience a range of different kinds of miracles
they transform from one to many, from many to one
and from visible to invisible; they pass without impediment through house walls
they travel through the air just like a bird; they dive into the ground and emerge from it, just as they would in water
through city walls, and through mountains
they stand on water just like they would on the ground
they give off smoke and flames, just like a great blaze of fire
their bodies emit many thousands of trillions of great torrents of water
just like a great cloud that can extinguish the great fire of a thousand-billion world universe being on fire
they grasp in their hands and polish the moon and the sun, which are so miraculous, powerful, and majestic
and just as they wish, their bodies have power over beings, as far up as those in Brahmā’s realm.
Thereupon the Bhagavān recited these verses
They travel through the air like a bird, And they miraculously emit smoke and flames.
“Just as the wind is unimpeded by space, And a multitude of clouds move through it
In that way the yogins fly through the air, Unimpeded like the wind and the clouds.
“The skilled bodhisattvas, on seeing Realms burning in a blazing inferno
Emit water from their bodies, Extinguishing the fire of millions of realms. {i
“They dive into the earth and reemerge, They walk unimpeded on water
“The skilled bodhisattvas, while seated, Grasp the sun and moon in their hands
Seated, they know the realm of Brahmā And teach the Dharma to millions of Brahmās.
“When they wish to teach the Dharma, The entire billion-world universe hears them
Then the Bhagavān said to the youth Candraprabha
As they wish, they teach the Dharma In millions of realms to millions of beings.”
“Therefore, young man, you should train by thinking, ‘I will practice completely pure physical conduct in that way.
Why is that? Because, young man, bodhisattva mahāsattvas who have completely pure physical conduc
have a divine sense of hearin
so that they can hear from afar the voice
of devas, humans, beings in the hells
those reborn as animals, and those in the realm of Yama
“Moreover, young man, you should train by thinking, ‘I will practice completely pure physical conduct in that way.
while they are seated, with their divine sense of smel
can smell from afar all the divine pleasant aromas of the Dharma that there are in all the worlds in the billion-world universe.
Then again the Bhagavān said to Candraprabha
“Young man, you should train by thinking, ‘I will practice completely pure physical conduct in that way.
know accurately the motivation, conduct, and thoughts of other beings and individuals
They accurately know a mind that has desire to be a mind that has desire
They accurately know a mind that is without desire to be a mind that is without desire
“It is the same as that for having anger and being without anger
having ignorance and being without ignorance, having craving and being without craving
having grasping and being without grasping, having concentration and distraction
having error and no error, having greatness and no greatness
having clarity and no clarity, being valid and being invalid
being surpassable and unsurpassable, being in meditation and not being in meditation
and being liberated and not being liberated, and they accurately know a mind that has kleśas to be a mind that has kleśas
“Young man, bodhisattva mahāsattvas who have completely pure physical conduct remember previous lives in many ways
they remember one previous life, or two, or three, or four, or five
or ten, or twenty, or thirty, or forty, or fifty, or remember a hundred previous lifetimes
They remember a thousand lives, a hundred thousand lives, and so on, up to many quintillions of previous lives
“They remember an eon of dissolution and an eon of origination
“They remember one eon, and they remember a hundred eons, a thousand eons
and they accurately know a mind that has no kleśas to be a mind that has no kleśas
and so on up to many eons of dissolution and eons of origination
a hundred thousand eons, and so on, up to remembering many quintillions of eons
“They remember as many as ten million past lives
saying, ‘I was born as such and such a being, this was my name
his was my family, this was my caste, this was my color, this was the food that I ate
this was my livelihood, this is how long a lifespan was, this is how long I lived
and this was the happiness and suffering I experienced
Then when I died I was reborn as such and such; then when I died again I was reborn here
such as what appearance they had, the place where they lived, and the cause for that rebirth
’“They remember correctly the many different aspects of their previous lives
“Young man, bodhisattva mahāsattvas who have completely pure physical conduc
have divine vision, which surpasses human vision
so that they know accurately, according to the karma of beings
their deaths and their rebirths, whether they have good color or bad color
whether they are fortunate or unfortunate, whether it is a good rebirth or a bad rebirth
and whether they are going to the higher realms or the lower realms
“They say, ‘These beings conducted themselves badly with their bodies
conducted themselves badly with their speech, and conducted themselves badly in their minds
They maligned the noble ones, had wrong views, and truly held those wrong views
Because of those causes, after they died they fell to the lower realms and were reborn in the hells
These beings conducted themselves well with their bodies, conducted themselves well with their speech
and conducted themselves well in their minds. They did not malign the noble ones, had correct views
’“In that way they have the pure divine vision that transcends that of humans
and truly held those correct views. Because of those causes, after they died they went to the higher realms and were reborn in the paradises
Thereupon the Bhagavān recited these verses
“The levels of higher cognitions Of the protector bodhisattvas are taught
The ones who remain in samādhi Are known as bodhisattvas.
to be heard, to be seen, to be realized, and to be manifested.
in one instant of wisdom accurately know, hear, see, and understand everything that is to be known
so that they know correctly, according to the karma of beings
The ones who remain in samādhiAre known as bodhisattvas.
“Their hearing is purified to become Inconceivable divine hearing
They hear the Dharma that is Taught by all the buddhas.
Of the protector bodhisattvas are taught
Smell all the divine Dharma aromas In the great billion-world universe. {i
“The skilled bodhisattvas, while sitting, With a divine sense of smel
Whether they have or do not have desire, Whether they have or do not have anger
“They know the minds of all beings
Throughout billions of eons
Whether they have or do not have ignorance.
“They know where they lived in the past, Those places where they previously live
They know them without any impediment.
“Their sight, too, is purified; They have insurpassable, divine sight
They see perfectly the deaths Of beings and their rebirths.
“Within a single instant They know all lifetimes
They know correctly every single Phenomenon that can be known.”
Then the Bhagavān said to Candraprabha
“Young man, you should train by thinking, ‘I will engage in completely pure conduct of speech in that way.
Young man, that is the restraint of speech
attain the inconceivable, unimpeded buddha’s speech, which has sixty aspects
“Young man, what is the restraint of speech? Young man, bodhisattva mahāsattvas who have completely pure conduct of speec
“Bodhisattva mahāsattvas who have the restraint of speech have the attainment of noble words
“Bodhisattva mahāsattvas who have the restraint of speech attain the eighty secondary signs of a great being
“Bodhisattva mahāsattvas who have the restraint of speech attain the thirty-two primary signs of a great being
“Bodhisattva mahāsattvas who have the restraint of speech attain the ten strengths of a tathāgata
the four fearlessnesses, and the eighteen distinct qualities of a buddha
Young man, that is the restraint of speech
“Bodhisattva mahāsattvas who have the restraint of speech attain the three doorways to liberation
What are these three? They are emptiness, the absence of attributes, and the absence of aspiration
They attain those three doorways to liberation
“Bodhisattva mahāsattvas who have the restraint of speech attain the four great brahmavihāras
What are the four great brahmavihāras? They are great love, great compassion, great joy, and great equanimity
They attain those four great brahmavihāras
“Bodhisattva mahāsattvas who have the restraint of speech attain the four discernments
What are the four discernments? They are the discernment of meaning, the discernment of phenomena
the discernment of definitions, and the discernment of eloquence. They attain those four discernments
“Bodhisattva mahāsattvas who have the restraint of speech attain the thirty-seven aspects of enlightenment
What are the thirty-seven aspects of enlightenment? They are the four kinds of mindfulness, the four correct exertions
the four bases for miraculous powers, the five powers
the five strengths, the seven aspects of enlightenment, and the noble eightfold path
They attain those thirty-seven aspects of enlightenment
“Bodhisattva mahāsattvas who have the restraint of speech attain the state of great compassion
attain the state of great equanimity, attain easeful examination, and the quality of being devoid of examination
attain the state of great compassion
attain the state of great equanimity, attain easeful examination, and the quality of being devoid of examination
Young man, that is the restraint of speech
“Moreover, young man, bodhisattva mahāsattvas who have the restraint of speech desist from killing
taking what is not given, not maintaining celibacy, lying
slandering, harsh speech, and idle talk
from maligning the Buddha, Dharma, and Saṅgha
from speaking untrue words to their parents and their teachers
and from any other words that are harmful words
Those bodhisattva mahāsattvas desis
They know those words to be like echoes
They perceive them to be like apparitions, mirages, hallucinations, and illusions
and in that way they do not objectify words, conceptualize them
become proud of them, view them, or become attached to them
Then the Bhagavān said to Candraprabha
“Young man, you should train by thinking, ‘I will engage in completely pure conduct of speech in that way.
Young man, bodhisattva mahāsattvas who have the restraint of speech have no fear of any lower realm and obtain the entire Dharma of the buddhas
They attain all the miraculous powers and higher cognitions of the buddhas
Thereupon the Bhagavān recited these verses
“That which is called the restraint of speec
Is the restraint of speech through which The bodhisattvas will attain the unimpeded knowledge The entirety of the Dharma.
Is the restraint of speech through which the wise Attain the unimpeded, inconceivable buddha speech That has sixty aspects. {i
“That which is called the restraint of speec
Is the restraint of speech through which the wis
Attain all the qualities of buddhahood That have previously been taught by me.
Attain the brahmavihāras, the discernments, And marvelous, inconceivable qualities.
Attain the mindfulnesses, the correct exertions, The strengths, the powers, and the bases for miraculous powers.
Attain great equanimity, the fearlessnesses, And the state of great compassion.
Attain pure, easeful examination And the peace of being devoid of examination.
Do not lie, speak words of slander, Indulge in idle talk, or speak harsh words.
Will never say that they forsake the Dharma Or forsake the Buddha or the Saṅgha.
Do not speak words that are unture In front of their parents or teachers.
Desist from all other words That are harmful, without exception.
Fearlessly use words that are like echoes And that are analogous to dreams.
Is the bodhisattva’s use of word
Arising through conditions, and as deceptive as a dream.
As being without self, without a soul, unmoving
As being without self, without a soul, unmoving, Arising through conditions, and as deceptive as a dream.
With cessation always being like a dream, And nirvāṇa also being like a dream.
Is the bodhisattva’s use of words
“That which is called the restraint of speec
Is when there are no words at all to be found. It is not conceptualizing them or being proud of them
And not being dependent on them or attached to them.”
Then the Bhagavān said to Candraprabha
“Therefore, young man, you should train by thinking, ‘I shall be endowed with the restraint of the mind.
“Young man, what is the restraint of the mind? Bodhisattva mahāsattvas who have the restraint of the mind are without fear of the Dharma of the buddhas, and have attained the unshakable, liberated mind
Young man, that is the restraint of the mind
“Bodhisattva mahāsattvas who have the restraint of the mind obtain the samādhi that is like a vajra
“Bodhisattva mahāsattvas who have the restraint of the mind obtain the light rays that are called as bright as flames
“Bodhisattva mahāsattvas who have the restraint of the mind attain the perfect voice of a buddha, which has sixty aspects
“Bodhisattva mahāsattvas who have the restraint of the mind have the attainment of noble words
“Bodhisattva mahāsattvas who have the restraint of the mind attain the thirty-two primary signs of a great being
“Bodhisattva mahāsattvas who have the restraint of the mind attain the eighty secondary signs of a great being
“Bodhisattva mahāsattvas who have the restraint of the mind attain the ten strengths of a tathāgata, the four fearlessnesses
and the eighteen distinct qualities of a buddha. Young man, that is the restraint of the mind
“Bodhisattva mahāsattvas who have the restraint of the mind attain the three doorways to liberation
What are the three doorways to liberation? They are emptiness, the absence of attributes
and the absence of aspiration. They attain those three doorways to liberation. Young man, that is the restraint of the mind
“Bodhisattva mahāsattvas who have the restraint of the mind attain the four great brahmavihāras
What are the four great brahmavihāras? They are great love, great compassion, great joy, and great equanimity
They attain those four great brahmavihāras. Young man, that is the restraint of the mind
“Bodhisattva mahāsattvas who have the restraint of the mind attain the four discernments
What are the four discernments? They are the discernment of meaning, the discernment of phenomena
the discernment of definitions, and the discernment of eloquence
They attain those four discernments. Young man, that is the restraint of the mind
They are the four kinds of mindfulness, the four correct exertions
the four bases for miraculous powers, the five powers, the five strengths, the seven aspects of enlightenment
and the noble eightfold path. They attain those thirty-seven aspects of enlightenment. Young man, that is the restraint of the mind
“Bodhisattva mahāsattvas who have the restraint of the mind attain the state of great compassion
attain the state of great equanimity, and attain easeful examinatio
and the quality of being devoid of examination. Young man, that is the restraint of the mind
and the quality of being devoid of examination. Young man, that is the restraint of the mind
“Bodhisattva mahāsattvas who have the restraint of the mind attain engagement in conduct with the wish to benefit others
Young man, that is the restraint of the mind
“Young man, you should train by thinking, ‘I will practice completely pure conduct of the mind in that way.
Why is that
Then the Bhagavān said to Candraprabha
and they do not objectify it, conceptualize it, become proud of it, view it, or become attached to it
“They perceive the mind as being like a dream, being like a mirage
being like an apparition, and being like a hallucination, something that does not come from anywhere and does not go anywhere
They perceive happiness as being like a dream, perceive it as being impermanent like a dream
perceive it as being devoid of self like a dream, perceive it as being devoid of a soul like a dream
“Bodhisattva mahāsattvas who have the restraint of the mind do not associate with wrong views in order to desist from wrong views
they do not associate with avarice in order to desist from avarice
they do not associate with malice in order to desist from malice
they do not associate with laziness in order to desist from laziness
they do not wish to deceive their parents or their teachers
and they do not develop desire, anger, or ignorance and do not associate with them
They do not abandon the aspiration to enlightenment
they do not destabilize their superior aspiration
and also the bodhisattvas desist from all other harmful thoughts in their mind, and do not associate with them
Young man, bodhisattva mahāsattvas who have completely pure conduct of the mind avoid all unfavorable condition
They obtain from all the buddhas the higher cognitions of the buddha
and the unshakable, liberated mind. Young man, that is the restraint of the mind.
Thereupon the Bhagavān recited these verses
“All of you listen with an unwavering mind, For I will teach the restraint of the mind
If you wish to attain buddhahood quickly, Listen to me and then practice this.
“That restraint of the mind through which wise ones Attain the vast, unshakable, supreme peace
The wonderful, inconceivable Dharma of the jinas, That is what is called the pure restraint of the mind.
“That restraint of the mind through which wise ones Attain the liberated, eternally unshakable mind
And likewise the supreme samādhi that is like a vajra, That is what is called the most splendid restraint of the mind.
“That which wise ones practice and through which They accomplish light rays of great benefit
And attain the voice with sixty aspects, That is what is called the purest restraint of the mind.
“That restraint of the mind through which wise ones Quickly attain the thirty-two primary sign
And attain the ten strengths and every quality of buddhahood, That is what is called the supreme restraint of the mind.
“That restraint of the mind through which wise ones Attain the discernments and the fearlessnesses
And wonderful, inconceivable, supreme qualities, That is what is called the supreme restraint of the mind.
“That restraint of the mind through which wise ones Attain the mindfulnesses, the bases of miraculous powers
The correct efforts, and the five powers and strengths, That is what is called the supreme restraint of the mind.
and obtain the countless Dharma teachings of the buddhas
“That restraint of the mind through which wise ones Attain all of the four brahmavihāras, and likewis
Emptiness, the absence of attributes, and the absence of aspiration, That is what is called the supreme restraint of the mind. {i
“That restraint of the mind through which wise ones Attain the state of compassion, great equanimity
And the practice of correct conduct, great love, and peace, That is what is called the supreme restraint of the mind. {ii
“That restraint of the mind through which wise ones Attain the state of compassion, great equanimity
And the practice of correct conduct, great love, and peace, That is what is called the supreme restraint of the mind. {ii
“That restraint of the mind through which wise ones Quickly attain the seven limbs of enlightenmen
And similarly the eight aspects of the supreme path, That is what is called the supreme restraint of the mind.
“That restraint of the mind through which wise ones Attain the supreme state of equanimit
And the stainless, supreme state of compassion, That is what is called the supreme restraint of the mind.
“That restraint of the mind through which wise ones Attain easeful examination, a mind of pure peace
And detachment through a wealth of qualities, That is what is called the supreme restraint of the mind.
“That restraint of the mind through which wise ones Do not associate with evil people and those with wrong views
And do not develop a mind of malice, or a mind of avarice, That is what is called the supreme restraint of the mind.
“That restraint of the mind through which wise ones Do not act with pretense for even an instant
And do not act with deception toward the guru, That is what is called the supreme restraint of the mind.
“That restraint of the mind through which wise ones Do not develop desire or anger in their mind
And similarly never give rise to ignorance, That is what is called the supreme restraint of the mind.
“That restraint of the mind through which wise ones In their mind do not forsake enlightenment
And whose superior motivation is never shaken, That is what is called the supreme restraint of the mind.
“That restraint of the mind through which wise ones Do not keep with any of the other numerous faults Of the mind that there may be, That is what is called the supreme restraint of the mind.
“They understand the mind as being like an illusion, Like a dream, and similarly like a mirage
Always having the characteristic of a hallucination: That is what is called the supreme restraint of the mind.
“They understand happiness to be like a dream, And similarly, impermanent, empty, and transient
Wise ones understand the mind in that way: That is what is called the supreme restraint of the mind.
“They understand the mind to be without a soul, without being, And arising from conditions like a whirled torch’s circle of fire
Not coming from anywhere nor going anywhere: That is what is called the supreme restraint of the mind.
Not coming from anywhere nor going anywhere: That is what is called the supreme restraint of the mind.
“They understand the mind to be without a soul, without being, And arising from conditions like a whirled torch’s circle of fire
“They never objectify the mind at all, And are without conceptualization or pride
They do not fixate upon it or become attached to it: That is what is called the supreme restraint of the mind.
“They understand the ultimate truth to be like a dream, And nirvāṇa to be the same as a dream
Wise ones understand the mind in that way: That is what is called the supreme restraint of the mind.”
“Young man, what is purity of action
Seeing the three existences as being like a dream and becoming free of desire
Young man, that is purity of action
“Young man, what is the transcendence of the mind’s fixation on perceptions
It is knowing that the skandhas, dhātus, and āyatanas are like illusions, and renouncing them
That is the transcendence of the mind’s fixation on perceptions
“What is the knowledge of the skandhas? It is perceiving the skandhas to be like mirages
“What is the equality of the dhātus? It is renouncing the dhātus as being like apparitions
“What is the elimination of the āyatanas? It is renouncing the āyatanas as being like hallucinations
“What is the renunciation of craving? It is not fixating on any phenomena. That is the renunciation of craving
“What is the direct realization of birthlessness? It is not having the perception of any phenomena
“What is engagement in activity? It is not giving up because of suffering arising from diligence
“What is the illumination of causes? It is perceiving that the skandhas are like echoes
“What is the non-dissipation of the results of karma? It is knowing that the results of karma do not dissipate like a dream
“What is insight into phenomena? It is not seeing phenomena
“What is the meditation of the path? It is meditation on the nonperception of all phenomena
“What is the meditation of the path? It is meditation on the nonperception of all phenomena
“What is meeting the tathāgatas? It is practicing the training of all the buddhas
“What is sharp wisdom? It is the patience of the birthlessness of phenomena
“What is penetrating into beings? It is knowing the higher and the lower faculties. “What is knowledge of phenomena
It is the nonperception of phenomena. “What is the knowledge of engaging in discernment
It is engaging in the true nature of phenomena. “What is the knowledge of the different kinds of letters and words
It is the knowledge of engaging with the three mantras, and knowing what is the form and what is not the form of words
“What is the transcendence of matter? It is the understanding of immateriality
“What is the understanding of sounds? It is knowing them to be like echoes
“What is the attainment of joy? It is the nonperception of all phenomena
the ending of the suffering that arises from saṃsāra, and putting down one’s burden
“What is experiencing the joy of the Dharma? It is never abandoning teaching, pleasing, and seeing the excellence of one’s yāna
“What is abiding? It is the realization of the truths of the noble ones
“What is sincerity? It is uncontrived conduct
“What is no longer having frowns? It is being without anger
“What is being pleasant? It is being good company
“What is being gentle? It is being beneficial to others
“What is being courteous? It is being welcoming and standing up quickly
“What is having veneration for the guru? It is being fearful of the guru and perceiving the guru as the kalyāṇamitra
“What is respect for the guru? It is honoring and serving the guru
“What is being content with occurences? It is having no attachment to anything that occurs
“What is being content with occurences? It is having no attachment to anything that occurs
“What is never being satisfied with the good actions one has done
It is pursuing every kind of good action and seeking for any good action
“What is having a pure livelihood? It is being satisfied with anything
using no trickery, no flattery, not being covetous, and not having the desire to acquire
“What is not forsaking the solitary life? It is not abandoning dedication to good actions and delighting in residing in a remote place
delighting in dense forests, inaccessible mountain sites, and the interior of caves; experiencing the joy of the Dharma
not mixing laypeople and renunciants; not having attachment to gain, honors, or praise; rejecting craving
and experiencing the joy of dhyāna. That is not forsaking the solitary life
“What is the knowledge of successive levels? It is the knowledge of the distinctive result of the śrāvaka
knowledge of the distinctive level of the pratyekabuddha, and knowledge of the distinctive level of the bodhisattva
“What is always maintaining mindfulness? It is being attentive to impermanence, suffering, emptiness, and the absence of self
“What is having specific attainments? It is accomplishing a buddha’s strengths, fearlessnesses, and discernments
“What is ceasing engagement with propensities
It is reviling previous foolish conduct and not wishing for the level of the śrāvakas or pratyekabuddhas
“What is the elimination of kleśas? It is the elimination of desire, anger, and ignorance
“What is making one’s higher cognitions manifest to others? It is attaining the four bases of miraculous powers and manifesting miracles
It is having the knowledge of the categories of the skandhas, dhātus, and āyatanas, but having no perception of them
“What is being wise concerning the skandhas, wise concerning the dhātus, and wise concerning the āyatanas
“What is having specific attainments? It is accomplishing a buddha’s strengths, fearlessnesses, and discernments
“What is the natural result of meditation? It is the elimination of attachment and aversion
“What is skillfulness in eliminating transgressions? It is the restraint of the pratimokṣa and the vinaya
“What is the prevention of the arising of bad actions? It is confessing bad actions and the virtue of restraining from them in the future
“What is the elimination of attachment? It is destroying all the creepers of craving for the three existences
developing the good qualities that have not yet been developed, and not losing the good qualities that have been developed
“What is transcending the existences? It is not focusing the mind upon or engaging the mind with the three realms
“What is the memory of previous rebirths? It is the knowledge of previous lifetimes
“What is being free of doubt concerning the ripening of karma? It is rejecting eternalism and nihilism
“What is the contemplation of phenomena? It is correct contemplation
“What is seeking to hear the Dharma? It is possessing and meditating upon the piṭaka of the śrāvakas
the piṭaka of the pratyekabuddhas, and the piṭaka of the bodhisattvas
“What is having sharp knowledge? It is knowing the nonorigination of phenomena to be like a dream
“What is craving for wisdom? It is seeking wisdom
“What is the realization of wisdom? It is the attainment of the highest, complete enlightenment
“What is the level of a noble being? It is the state of bodhisattva training
“What is having a mind like a mountain? It is not abandoning the aspiration to enlightenment
“What is being unshakable? It is not being led astray by the kleśas
“What is being immovable? It is the mind not being engaged with any attribute
“What is irreversibility? It is the unimpaired six perfections, and the continuous vision of the buddhas who reside in other worlds
“What is irreversibility? It is the unimpaired six perfections, and the continuous vision of the buddhas who reside in other worlds
“What is the natural result of good qualities? It is being near to the highest, complete enlightenment
“What is the abhorrence of bad qualities? It is restraint and not performing bad actions in the first place
“What is being free of behavior caused by the kleśas? It is being free of that which is caused by ignorance, craving for existence, and anger
“What is never abandoning the training? It is conviction in the ripening of karma, and having veneration for the buddhas
“What is being established in samādhi
It is a one-pointed mind that is skilled in the nonproduction and nonperishing of the phenomena of the mind and mental events
“What is the knowledge of the thoughts of beings? It is the wisdom that knows the superior and inferior faculties of beings
“What is the knowledge of the various rebirths of beings? It is the knowledge of the different states of the five kinds of existence
“What is knowledge of the infinite? It is the effortless knowledge of mundane and supramundane skills
“What is the knowledge of the intended meaning of words? It is the knowledge of the intended meaning of the Tathāgata’s words
“What is the rejection of living in a home? It is leaving home for physical and mental solitude
“What is finding no joy in the three realms? It is seeing the realms for what they truly are
“What is having a motivation that is not discouraged? It is not giving up the motivation and not giving up meditation
“What is having no attachment to phenomena? It is the renunciation of all that one has affection for
“What is having possession of the sacred Dharma? It is preserving the Buddha’s enlightenment, and possessing sūtras such as this
“What is protecting the Dharma? It is subjugating, in a way that is in accord with the Dharma, those who malign the Buddha’s Dharma
“What is conviction in the ripening of karma
It is forsaking bad actions through a sense of shame, and dedicating oneself to seeking good qualities
“What is conviction in the ripening of karma
It is forsaking bad actions through a sense of shame, and dedicating oneself to seeking good qualities
“What is skill in the vinaya? It is the knowledge of what are natural transgressions and what are not natural transgressions
and the knowledge of what are proscribed transgressions and what are not proscribed transgressions
“What is the pacification of disputes? It is the avoidance of gatherings
“What is the absence of discord and the absence of quarrels? It is the absence of desire for worldly conversation
“What is having reached the level of patience? It is enduring harm to the body and mind
“What is maintaining patience? It is maintaining equanimity and not losing one’s patience when others speak badly, saying unpleasant words
“What is skill in examining phenomena? It is distinguishing the skandhas, dhātus, and āyatanas
distinguishing the aspects of kleśas and purification, and not objectifying them
“What is skill in gaining certainty concerning phenomena? It is the inexpressibility of all phenomena
“What is the knowledge of distinguishing between the words for phenomena
It is the accomplishment of the differentiation of all phenomena
“What is skill in the presentation of the words for phenomena? It is teaching phenomena exactly as they are
“What is the knowledge of the skill of presenting the distinction between words that have meaning and words that do not have meaning
It is that the nature of phenomena cannot be taken away from or added to
“What is knowledge of the past? It is the knowledge of causes
“What is knowledge of the future? It is the knowledge of contributing factors
“What is the knowledge of the equality of the three times? It is the true nature of the way of things, which is that there is no differentiation to be made between all phenomena
“What is the knowledge of the purity of the three aspects of actions
It is not objectifying and having no mental engagement with phenomena of the past, future, or present
“What is the knowledge of the body’s condition? It is mindfulness of the body
“What is the knowledge of the body’s condition? It is mindfulness of the body
“What is the knowledge of the mind’s condition? It is not objectifying the min
“What is guarding conduct? It is conduct that is unsullied
“What is having unshakable conduct? It is conduct without error
“What is uncontrived conduct? It is being free of the desire for bad actions
“What is having attractive conduct? It is the mind being focused upon engagement with the Dharma
speaking rationally, being aware of time, and teaching the Dharma correctly
“What is knowledge of the world? It is the knowledge of going and coming
“What is unrestrained generosity? It is not holding on to things and being without miserliness
“What is being openhanded? It is having a virtuous nature
“What is having a mind without fixation? It is having unsullied faith
“What is having a sense of self-respect? It is not being talkative
“What is having a sense of modesty? It is that which is not evident to others
“What is an abhorrence of negative aspirations? It is understanding what are the qualities of foolishness, and not associating with them
“What is not forsaking the qualities of purification? It is being stable in commitments
“What is maintaining correct conduct? It is developing disciplined conduct
“What is joyful conduct? It is the contemplation of virtuous qualities
“What is standing up to welcome gurus and presenting them with a seat? It is overcoming pride and not being lazy
“What is the elimination of pride? It is not objectifying or depending upon a self
“What is controlling the mind? It is the knowledge of how not to lose good qualities
“What is the knowledge of generating enthusiasm? It is the knowledge of how not to lose the results of diligence
“What is the knowledge of discernment? It is the wisdom that understands the truth exactly as it is
“What is the realization of wisdom? It is the realization of both mundane and supramundane qualities
“What is being without ignorance? It is not imposing embellishments on phenomena as they truly are
“What is the knowledge of the processes of the mind? It is the knowledge of the absence of creation and destruction
“What is the knowledge of the processes of the mind? It is the knowledge of the absence of creation and destruction
“What is the knowledge of accomplishment and definite accomplishment? It is sharp wisdom
“What is the knowledge of all language? It is correctly teaching the Dharma
“What is the knowledge of presentation? It is the knowledge of correct engagement
“What is the knowledge of attaining certainty in meaning? It is cutting through the skandha of mental activities
“What is abandoning that which is harmful? It is transcending existence and causing others to transcend existence
“What is relying upon excellent beings? It is not being apart from a buddha
“What is being together with excellent beings? It is attending upon buddhas, bodhisattvas, pratyekabuddhas, and śrāvakas
“What is avoiding bad beings? It is avoiding those who are fixated on perceptions and those who are lazy
“What is delighting in dhyāna? It is avoiding the thorns of desire, not forsaking dhyāna, and not abandoning joy
“What is not clinging to dhyāna? It is wishing to transcend the three existences
wishing to ripen beings, and wishing for the light of higher wisdom
“What is the utilization of the higher cognitions
It is teaching to others, through the five higher cognitions, the Dharma teachings of the Buddha that are difficult to understand
“What is the knowledge of assigned names? It is the understanding that names are without reality
“What is the use of designations? It is worldly usage
“What is employing designations? It is the knowledge of speaking
“What is disillusionment with saṃsāra? It is reflecting upon the harm of saṃsāra
“What is not being motivated by material gain? It is having few desires
“What is having no interest in gain or honors? It is being free of regret and free of the wish to commit sinful actions
“What is not being upset by criticism? It is the knowledge that comprehends the skandhas and the dhātus
“What is not being fixated upon praise? It is not making known one’s good actions, and it is knowing gain and honor to be obstacles
“What is having no interest in gain or honors? It is being free of regret and free of the wish to commit sinful actions
“What is indifference to respect? It is understanding the ripening of karma
“What is not being upset by lack of respect? It is not forsaking the practice
“What is being undisturbed by disrespect? It is being aware of worldly qualities
“What is being indifferent to praise? It is seeking good actions and abandoning worldly life
“What is not being disheartened when there is no gain? It is being aware of the qualities that oneself has given rise to
“What is not associating with householders? It is avoiding any kind of worldly enjoyment
“What is not associating with renunciants? It is avoiding that which is inappropriate and seeking that which is appropriate
“What is avoiding that which is outside the scope of correct conduct? It is abandoning the five obscurations
“What is acting within the scope of correct conduct? It is meditation on the four mindfulnesses
“What is the perfection of conduct? It is its perfect preservation
“What is rejecting incorrect conduct? It is preserving your good qualities
“What is not dishonoring your family? It is avoiding profiting from wisdom
“What is preserving the teaching? It is the determined seeking of the Dharma and practicing the Dharma in accord with the Dharma
“What is speaking little? It is the attainment of śamatha
“What is speaking softly? It is the attainment of vipaśyanā
“What is skillfulness in answers? It is the knowledge of replies and rejoinders
“What is defeating opposition? It is the correct presentation and teaching of the Dharm
and defeating those who believe in objective reality
“What is arriving at the right time? It is knowledge of the time
“What is arriving at the right time? It is knowledge of the time
“What is not relying on ordinary people? It is seeing the qualities of the foolish to be faults
“What is not having contempt for those in suffering? It is having impartiality toward all beings
“What is giving wealth to those who are in suffering? It is giving them worldly goods
“What is not rebuking the poor? It is having kindness toward others
“What is having compassion for those whose conduct is incorrect? It is saving others from transgression and establishing them in correct conduct
“What is having that which will bring benefit to others? It is benefiting others
“What is having a compassionate mind? It is consideration of the future suffering of beings
“What is benefiting others through the Dharma? It is bringing others correctly into the Dharma
“What is giving away material wealth? It is giving away whatever has been accumulated and benefiting others through material things
“What is not hoarding? It is renouncing material wealth and seeing it as harmful to the maintenance of correct conduct
“What is praising correct conduct? It is the knowledge of the result of correct conduct
“What is condemning incorrect conduct? It is the understanding of the faults of incorrect conduct
“What is unwaveringly attending upon those who have correct conduct
It is the knowledge that perceives those who have correct conduct to be difficult to find
“What is giving up all possessions? It is having a virtuous motivation
“What is welcoming others with a higher motivation? It is wishing to benefit others
“What is doing exactly what one has said one will do? It is having a completely virtuous motivation
“What is perpetual application? It is seeking for and inquiring about any virtue
“What is having veneration and experiencing joy? It is knowledge through realization and knowledge through scripture
“What is the knowledge of using examples? It is having the knowledge of similarities and the knowledge of teaching
“What is being skilled concerning past lifetimes? It is remembering lifetimes and having received many teachings
“What is being skilled concerning past lifetimes? It is remembering lifetimes and having received many teachings
“What is putting roots of merit first? It is having a strong longing for enlightenment and also inspring that in others
“What is skill in methods? It is being skilled in confession, rejoicing, supplication, and the dedication of the roots of goodness
“What is the negation of attributes? It is realizing that all phenomena are like a dream, and the extinction of things
“What is turning away from conceptualization? It is the rejection of error
“What is the knowledge of the characteristics of things? It is the knowledge of things having no characteristics
“What is skill in the accomplishment of the sūtras
It is teaching through describing accurately the understanding of, and the examples for, good and bad qualities
“What is certainty in the truth? It is the cessation of consciousness, and the nonarising of names-and-form
“What is the direct experience of liberation? It is not wavering from the samādhi that is like a vajra
“What is the single teaching? It is not being reborn in the inferior state of a tīrthika
“What is the attainment of fearlessness? It is understanding the Buddha’s Dharma and developing the strength of dhyāna
“What is the basis of correct conduct? It is the restraint of the body and the pratimokṣa vows
“What is entering into samāpatti? It is being free of desire for the three existences
“What is the attainment of wisdom? It is the knowledge of power and having no objectification
“What is delighting in solitude? It is avoiding the faults from being with others and not forsaking good qualities
“What is contentment with having no high reputation? It is being pleased with whatever there is
“What is the absence of pollution in the mind? It is the suppression of the obscurations
“What is rejecting incorrect views? It is rejecting the view of objective reality
“What is the attainment of mental retention
It is teaching correctly and without impediment the Dharma just as it has been seen
“What is the attainment of mental retention? It is teaching correctly and without impediment the Dharma just as it has been seen
“What is the entrance into knowledge? It is the entrance into the true nature
“What is the basis? It is the basis of correct conduct
“What is the ground? It is the ground of the mind
“What is the foundation? It is the foundation of faith
“What is the practice? It is the practice of the path
“What is the knowledge of the cause? It is the knowledge that ignorance is the cause of saṃsāra
“What is the method? It is knowledge as the method of liberation
“What is the way? It is the way of the rejection of craving
“What is the doorway? It is abandoning faults
“What is the path? It is the knowledge of impermanence, suffering, emptiness, and selflessness
“What is the level? It is the tenfold level of the absence of aspiration
“What is being free from rebirth? It is putting an end to rebirth
“What is the level of knowledge? It is being free of stupidity
“What is the elimination of ignorance? It is the elimination of stupidity
“What is the basis of wisdom? It is without a basis
“What is the level of spiritual practice? It is meditation on the qualities of the thirty-seven aspects of enlightenment
“What is the scope of practice of the bodhisattvas? It is comprised of the six perfections
“What is attending upon wise beings? It is attending upon buddhas
“What is rejecting those who are not wise beings? It is rejecting tīrthikas who have the view of objective reality
“What is the teaching of the tathāgatas
It is liberation through knowledge of the true nature, having gained the strengths of buddhahood
“What is the level of buddhahood? It is the attainment of all good qualities
“What is meant by the wise rejoicing in it
It means the buddha bhagavāns, and the śrāvakas of the past, future, and present, rejoicing
“What is meant by the foolish rejecting it? It means that it is difficult for all who are foolish to understand
“What is meant by the foolish rejecting it? It means that it is difficult for all who are foolish to understand
“What is meant by it being difficult for the śrāvakas and pratyekabuddhas to know
It means that the Buddha’s Dharma is inconceivable
“What is meant by it not being the level of the tīrthikas? It means that their level is the false pride of a practitioner
“What is meant by the bodhisattvas possessing it? It means that it is difficult to obtain and is a great medicine
“What is meant by its being realized by those who have the ten strengths? It means that it is an arduous practice
“Why should the devas make offerings to it? They should do so in order to attain every happiness
“Why should Brahmā praise it? Because it is a practice that brings the attainment of all liberations
“Why should the nāgas pay homage to it? Because it destroys all habitual tendencies
“Why should the yakṣas rejoice in it? Because it closes the pathways to all the lower realms
“Why should the kiṃnaras praise it in song? Because it brings the attainment of all the happiness of liberation
“Why should the mahoragas laud it? Because it destroys saṃsāra
“Why should the bodhisattvas meditate on it? Because it brings the attainment of omniscient wisdom
“Why should the wise comprehend it? Because it brings the attainment of irreversibility
“Why is it the highest wealth? Because it brings the attainment of an excellent rebirth as a deva or human and it brings the attainment of liberation
“Why is it immaterial generosity? Because it destroys all the kleśas
“Why is it a medicine for the sick? Because it brings desire, anger, and ignorance to an end
“Why is it a treasure of wisdom? Because it is meditation
“Why is it unceasing eloquence? Because it is truly correct knowledge and vision
“Why is it freedom from misery? Because it is the realization that harm and suffering are meaningless and that suffering has no self
Because it is the realization that harm and suffering are meaningless and that suffering has no self
“Why is it freedom from misery
“Why is it the comprehension of the entire three realms? Because it is the realization that they are like dreams and illusions
“Why is it a raft for crossing to the other shore
Because it is the meditation on impermanence, suffering, and emptiness by those who have the higher motivation of desiring to attain nirvāṇa
“Why is it like a boat for those in the middle of a river? Because it brings the attainment of nirvāṇa
“Why is it fame for those who wish for renown? Because it brings the attainment of vast qualities
“Why do the buddhas praise it? Because it is the benefactor that provides a medicine with infinite good qualities
“Why do the tathāgatas laud it? Because it is the benefactor that provides all qualities and happiness and liberation
“Why do those who have the ten strengths praise it
Because it is the benefactor that provides the precious Dharma that is difficult to find
“Why is it the quality of the bodhisattvas? Because it is the acquisition of training in the Dharma
“Why is it the equanimity of those with compassion? Because it is the activity that accomplishes a buddha’s deeds
“Why is it the love that brings evil to an end? Because it provides the remedy
“Why does it provide relief for those who follow the Mahāyāna? Because it fulfills all the wishes for the Buddha’s Dharma
“Why is it the diligent practice of those with a lion’s roar
Because it brings the attainment of the best Dharma, the superior Dharma
“Why is it the path of the wisdom of the buddhas? Because it brings the attainment of all good qualities
“Why is it the seal upon all phenomena? Because it brings the realization of this side from the other side
“Why is it the accomplishment of omniscient wisdom
Because it eliminates all bad qualities, accomplishes all good qualities, and brings liberation to all beings
Because it eliminates all bad qualities, accomplishes all good qualities, and brings liberation to all beings
“Why is it the accomplishment of omniscient wisdom
“Why is it the pleasure garden of bodhisattvas
Because their every happiness, joy, and pleasure bring happiness to all beings
“Why does it terrify the māras? Because it accomplishes all the strengths and because it brings all the kleśas to an end
“Why is it the knowledge of those who have reached happiness? Because it is the cessation of all distress
“Why is it the benefit from those who accomplish benefit? Because it brings the accomplishment of all good fortune
“Why is it the refuge for those among enemies
Because it brings defeat to all those who believe in objective reality and have wrong views
“Why is it the subjugation of adversaries by those who have the Dharma
Because it brings the defeat of the tīrthikas by those who have the Dharma
“Why is it the expression of truth for those who have fearlessness
Because it brings the tranquility of having analyzed well and analyzed precisely all phenomena
“Why is it the correct search for the strengths? Because it is a practice that is not incorrect
“Why is it the omen for the eighteen unique qualities of a buddha? Because it brings the attainment of all good qualities
“Why is it an adornment? Because it brings the attainment of the thirty-two primary signs of a great being
“Why is it the delight of those who desire liberation? Because it is good in the beginning, the middle, and the end
“Why is it the joy of the eldest sons? Because it brings the attainment of experiencing their father’s wealth, the Buddha’s wealth
“Why is it the completion of buddha wisdom
Because it brings the maintenance of all good qualities and the attainment of the cultivation of all good qualities and nothing else
“Why is it not the level of śrāvakas or pratyekabuddhas
Because it brings the accomplishment of the vast, inconceivable qualities of buddhahood
“Why is it the purity of the mind? Because there is the elimination of all stains
“Why is it the purity of the mind? Because there is the elimination of all stains
“Why is it the purity of the body? Because it brings the cessation of all illness
“Why is it the completion of the doorways to liberation
Because it brings the accomplishment of contemplating impermanence, suffering, emptiness, and selflessness
“Why is it devoid of the kleśa of desire? Because it brings the accomplishment of the deathless state
“Why is it devoid of anger? Because it brings the accomplishment of great love
“Why is it not the level of ignorance? Because it brings the accomplishment of seeing phenomena as they truly are
“Why is it the arising of wisdom
Because it brings the development of knowing all that is necessary, both mundane and supramundane
“Why is it the birth of knowledge? Because it brings the accomplishment of all appropriate mental engagement
“Why is it the elimination of ignorance? Because it brings freedom from all inappropriate mental engagement
“Why is it the contentment of those dedicated to liberation? Because it brings the accomplishment of noble greatness
“Why is it the satisfaction of those dedicated to samādhi
Because it brings the accomplishment of all bliss, joyful bliss, and a one-pointed mind
“Why is it eyes for those who wish for the view? Because it brings the accomplishment of seeing for oneself
“Why is it higher knowledge for those who wish to perform miracles
Because it brings freedom from obscuration and the desired true nature of phenomena
“Why is it miraculous power for those who wish for accomplishment
Because it brings the accomplishment of the unobscured, inconceivable knowledge of all phenomena
“Why is it retentive memory for those dedicated to listening to the Dharma
Because it brings the equality of all phenomena and nirvāṇa
“Why is it unceasing mindfulness? Because it is the natural peace of focusing upon nirvāṇa
“Why is it the blessing of the buddhas? Because it brings infinite accomplishment
“Why is it the skillful method of the guides? Because it conveys all to happiness and goodness
“Why is it difficult to know? Because it is difficult to discern
“Why is it subtle? Because it brings the peace of focusing on nirvāṇa
“Why is it difficult to know for those without dedication? Because they have not previously obtained it
“Why is it known by the wise? Because it is a great, precious meaning
“Why is it beyond words and difficult to know through speech? Because of the inconceivability of all phenomena
“Why is it the knowledge of pleasant beings? Because they know all forms of reverence
“Why is it realized by those with few desires? Because they give rise to reverence
“Why is it possessed by those who have undertaken it? Because they do not abandon their undertaking
“Why is it kept by those who are mindful? Because they do not allow it to perish
“Why is it the cessation of suffering? Because it brings the elimination of desire, anger, and ignorance
“Why is it the birthlessness of all phenomena? Because it brings the cessation of all consciousness
“Why is it the single teaching
Because all classes of existence, all death and transference, and all rebirths are like dreams, which means that all phenomena are without origination
“You should know these three hundred points
Young man, they are the samādhi, the revealed equality of the nature of all phenomena.
Thereupon the Bhagavān spoke these verses
“The Buddha’s Dharma is vast. The teaching of its practice is vast
When the Dharma is taught in a vast way The qualities attained will be vast.
“The characteristics of the Dharma Are just as vast as space
It contains vast jewels and light rays And therefore it is called vast.
“The ways beings act are vast, The teachings for them are vast
The meaning of the scripture is vast, And therefore it is called vast.”
When the Bhagavān taught this Dharma teaching of the samādhi, the revealed equality of the nature of all phenomena
countless beings developed the aspiration for complete enlightenment
Countless beings attained irreversibility from the highest, complete enlightenment
Countless beings developed the aspiration for their own enlightenment
Countless beings developed the aspiration for attaining the result of becoming an arhat
This universe of a thousand million worlds shook in six ways
It trembled, trembled strongly, and trembled intensely
it quivered, quivered strongly, and quivered intensely
it shook, shook strongly, and shook intensely
it shuddered, shuddered strongly, and shuddered intensely
it quaked, quaked strongly, and quaked intensely
the east sank and the west rose, the west sank and the east rose
the north sank and the south rose, the south sank and the north rose
the perimeter sank and the center rose, and the center sank and the perimeter rose
In all the world there shone an immeasurable radiance
there fell a great rain of divine incense
the devas threw down a great rain of flowers, hundreds of thousands of divine musical instruments were played up in the sky
the sky above was covered with divine food, and these words were spoken
“The beings who hear this Dharma teaching on entering great compassion will easily reach attainment
and those beings will serve and honor many buddhas
“Those who hear this samādhi, the revealed equality of the nature of all phenomena, and, having heard it, write it out
possess it, keep it, recite it to others, promote it
meditate on it with unadulterated meditation, promulgate it
and teach it extensively to others will become the subject of offerings from all beings.
Then the Bhagavān said to Brother Ānanda
“Ānanda, you must hold this Dharma teaching
recite it, promulgate it, and teach it extensively to others.
Then Brother Ānanda asked the Bhagavān
“What is the name of this teaching? In what way shall I keep it?
The Bhagavān said
“Ānanda, you should keep this sūtra as having the name Entering Great Compassion
Ānanda said, “Bhagavān, I shall keep this Dharma teaching.
You should also keep this sūtra as having the name The Samādhi, the Revealed Equality of the Nature of All Phenomena.
The Bhagavān, having spoken those words, the youth Candraprabha
Brother Ānanda, the fourfold assembly of bhikṣus, bhikṣuṇīs, upāsakas, and upāsikās
the devas of Śuddhāvāsa, and the world with its devas, humans, asuras, and gandharva
rejoiced and praised the words of the Bhagavān
The Samādhi, the Revealed Equality of the Nature of All Phenomena, is concluded
The Indian preceptor Śrīlendrabodhi
They honored him, worshiped him, revered him, made offerings to him, praised him, and venerated him
Then the Bhagavān, encircled and esteemed by that assembly of many hundred thousands, taught the Dharma
The youth Candraprabha rose from his seat, removed his robe from one shoulder
nd the Four Mahārājas and the other Cāturmahā­rāja­kāyika devas
and so on up until Brahmā and the other Brahmakāyika devas
such as the bodhisattva mahāsattva Ajita, and the sixty with incomparable minds, such as Mañjuśrī, and the sixteen good beings, such as Bhadrapāla
the bodhisatta mahāsattva Satatam­abhayaṁdad, and all the bodhisattva mahāsattvas of the Good Eon
Saha­cittotpāda­dharma­cakra­pravartin, and Śubha­kanaka­viśuddhi­prabha
Ratiṁkara, Dharmavyūha, Vyūharāja
Lakṣaṇa­samalaṁkṛta, Svaravyūha, Svara­viśuddhi­prabha
Ratnakūṭa, Ratnacūḍa, Daśa­śata­raśmihutārci, Jyotirasa, Candrabhānu
Meru, Sumeru, Mahāmeru, Meru­śikhara­dhara, Meru­pradīpa­rāja
Merukūṭa, Merudhvaja, Merurāja, Meru­śikhara­saṁghaṭṭana­rāja, Merusvara
Ratnavyūha, Ratnajāli, Ratnaprabha, Ratnadvīpa
Ratnaśikhara, Ratnasaṁbhava, Ratnaprabhāsa, Ratnayaṣṭi, Ratna­mudrā­hasta
Megharāja, Dundubhisvara, Ratnapāṇi, Ratnākara, Ratnaketu
I have a few questions for the Bhagavān, the tathāgata, the arhat, the perfectly enlightened Buddha.
and I shall gratify you with answers to each and every question you have asked
“Young man, I am omniscient. I am all-seeing
The Bhagavān having given him this opportunity
the young man Candraprabha recited these verses to the Bhagavān
“How does one find joy in maintaining correct conduc
“My prayer and my aspiration are vast. Śākya lion, you know my conduct
I will not be one who prizes words. Lord of humans, quickly teach me the practice.
“Which of the Dharmas included In the vehicle of enlightenment are to be cherished
Elucidate for me, great hero, The summit of all Dharmas.
“Teach to me, Lord, a beneficial Dharma
Will become free of terrible fears, will be fearless, Will never abandon the aggregate of correct conduct,
“Will be without arrogance, desire, anger, and ignorance, And will practice a conduct in which all faults have ceased. {b
How does one stay in a solitary place? How does wisdom increase?
“How does one not abandon correct conduct? How does one not depart from dhyāna
How does one examine the nature of the composite?
“How can the wise be pure In body and in speech
And with an unafflicted mind Seek the Buddha’s wisdom?
“How can they have pure actions of the body? How can they avoid faults in speech
Best of men, give your answer to my questions.”
The Bhagavān said to the youth Candraprabha
“Young man, this is the samādhi called the revealed equality of the nature of all phenomena.
Eighty thousand bhikṣuṇīs attained liberation of mind through the nonarising of defilements
ninety-three times a hundred thousand million obtained the transmission of the teaching of that patience
it shook, it shook strongly, and it shook intensely
to many countless, innumerable tathāgatas, arhats, perfectly enlightened buddha
I served, venerated, revered, honored, worshiped, and made offering
with the presentation of many hundred thousand quintillions o
for the bodhisattva mahāsattva
The natural result of making offerings to, serving, and being an attendant to all tathāgata
is that it will not be difficul
to attain the highest, complete enlightenment of perfect buddhahood
let alone this samādhi, as their natural result
This supreme peace of samādhi.
“The last of all of them Was the Lord of the World
And I asked him questions.
“I had become of royal caste
the sovereign. I had five hundred sons, No less indeed than that.
Beloved and adored by many beings
“For that buddha I built Ten million monasteries Made of special sandalwood, And some of precious materials.
For a hundred and eighty thousand million years I made excellent offerings to that buddha.
“I was a king named Bhīṣmottara
“The lifespan of the guide Śālendrarāja, That jina, irreproachable, Supreme among humans
Was seven hundred and sixty thousand million years.
Was comprised of eight trillion śrāvakas Who had the three knowledges, the six higher cognitions, and controlled senses
Whose defilements had ceased, and who were in their last body.
“The saṅgha of that supreme ma
“At that time I always longed for this samādhi In order to benefit the people of the world and the devas
And so I made many kinds of offerings To that jina, that supreme human.
“I, with my sons and wives, entered homelessness In the presence of Jina Śālendrarāj
And I asked questions about this samādhi for A hundred and forty thousand million years.
“I acquired from that sugata The single chapter of this samādhi
Which has eight thousand trillion verses And moreover another hundred septillion.
“Because I longed for this sublime samādh
There was nothing that I had not previously offered: Heads, hands, legs, wives and likewise sons, An abundance of riches, and similarly food to eat.
I remember ten thousand million buddhas And more, to the number of sand grains in the Ganges
“All of them had the name Śākyaṛṣabha. All of their sons were named Rāhula
All were mendicants from places named Kapilavastu.
“Their principal two students were Kolita and Śāriputra, The names of all the saviors were the same
The names of their worlds were the same, And they all appeared in a time of degeneration.
“While I practiced this bodhisattva conduct, I honored all those lords of men
While I longed for this samādhi, There was nothing I did not offer to the jinas.
“This samādhi is attained through practicing. Its practice has been taught in many forms
This samādhi is not difficult to attain For those who are established in all good qualities.
“This samādhi is not difficult to attain For those who do not grasp pleasures, who have no cravings, Who have no attachment to family, and are without envy, Who are continually kind, and are without anger.
“This samādhi is not difficult to attain For those who do not desire honor or gain, Whose subsistence is pure, who have nothing, Whose conduct is pure, and who are without fear.
“This samādhi is not difficult to attain For those who are diligent, without lassitude, And who are inclined to solitude, established in purification, And continually remain in the patience of selflessness.
“This samādhi is not difficult to attain For those who are not agitated, who have a well-tamed mind, Who remain within the conduct of mendicants and bodhisattvas, And who are predisposed toward generosity and are without miserliness.
“The primary and secondary signs, the eighteen buddha qualities, The strengths, and the fearlessnesses that have been described by the Guide Will not be difficult to attain for one Who maintains this samādhi of peace.
“If all the beings that a buddha can see Were simultaneously to attain buddhahood
And the length of each of their lives Were to be countless tens of thousands of millions of eons,
“And if each of them were to have heads As numerous as the grains of sand in the ocean
And if within each head there were tongues As numerous as the number of heads,
Conclusion of the second chapter, “Śālendrarāja.
All those jinas realize unstained, noncomposite enlightenment Through the practice of this samādhi.”
“The buddhas who have passed into nirvāṇa, Those who will come in the future and those who have appeared now
And I, the self-arisen Teacher, request That you uphold this pure samādh
In the time after I have passed into nirvāṇa.
“I have revealed these benefit
Will see the guide, Buddha Amitābha, And also the realm of Sukhāvatī.
“Those in the future time of great terrors Who hear this samādhi and keep i
They will teach countless thousands of sūtras Without the slightest interval.
“The ones who maintain the samādhi of peace Will have infinite eloquence
They will always be attended by devas and nāgas And opponents will not be able to withstand their brilliance.
“The ones who maintain the samādhi of peace that is difficult to attain Will be in the care of the jinas
“Whoever has accomplished the practice and developed qualities Will be adored by devas, asuras, and yakṣas. The ones who maintain the samādhi of peace, difficult to attain, Will have kings as their attendants.
They would not be able to describe even a fraction of it, Let alone describe the benefit of studying it, or of possessing it.
“And if all their voices were to describe the benefit Of possessing one verse from this samādhi
And if within each head there were tonguesAs numerous as the number of heads,
“And if each of them were to have heads As numerous as the grains of sand in the ocean
And the jinas attained their qualities Through seeking this supreme samādhi of peace.
“In the past, when I sought this supreme samādhi of peace With a mind that was indefatigable
I gave away a maiden adorned in jewelry, Who was perfectly beautiful and desirable.
I gave away male and female servants, riches and grain, And also jewels, pearls, gold, and silver.
“When I sought this supreme samādhi of peace In the past, I gave to the guides Various kinds of precious jewels, strings of pearls, Beautiful clothes, and necklaces of conch and gold.
“In countless, endless millions of eons I developed the highest supreme aspiration, And gave the best of perfumes and summer flowers To the caityas of the jinas.
I developed the highest supreme aspiration, And gave the best of perfumes and summer flowers To the caityas of the jinas.
“Through my giving the gift of the Dharma I developed a pleasing following
But the thought did not arise in my mind Of gaining renown through giving the gift of the Dharma.
“I never felt any reluctance to give away The loveliest things that gave me pleasure
I gave the gift of Dharma numerous times, And always my thoughts were of attaining buddha wisdom.
“In the past, to attain the qualities of this training, I remained always in excellent, quiet forests
I had immense compassion throughout that time And always my thoughts were of attaining buddha wisdom.
“I had a distinct conduct that was gentle and sweet, A smiling face, the memory of what I had heard, and affectionate speech
My very sweet words were beloved by many And all beings never had enough of looking at me.
“I did not have any stinginess for even a moment. Throughout myriad existences I had no envy
I was always completely satisfied by alms. I offered everything and left no remainder.
“Those who remember just one four-line verse from this Become very learned and remember all they have heard
Through it the highest, perfect faith arose in me And I always honored it.
“I longed for the supreme peace of this samādhi And made many offerings to the guides
I gave to them an endless variety of gifts And this maintained my correct conduct for a long time.
Than from endlessly offering numerous, various worlds That are all filled with precious jewels.
“From remembering one verse from this samādhi The merit will be vastly greate
For numerous, countless, endless eons,
“If those wishing for merit Were to offer to the jinas Whatever flowers and incense exis
For numerous, countless, endless eons,
“And if those wishing for merit Were to offer to the jinas Every kind of music, light, food, and clothin
“A person who develops the aspiration to enlightenment, Wishing to become a self-arisen jina, a lord of Dharma
Will have merit that will be vastly greater Through remembering one verse of this meditation.
The description of its benefits even in as many eons As there are grains of sand in the Ganges.
“The merit from possessing this samādhi is most vast. One would not be able to conclude recitin
“A person who develops the aspiration to enlightenment, Wishing to become a self-arisen jina, a lord of Dharma, Will have merit that will be vastly greater Through remembering one verse of this meditation.
“Therefore, having listened to The excellent benefits of the buddhas
You should quickly be one who has the transmission Of this samādhi praised by the Buddha.
“In my past lives I have honored Seven hundred and thirty million buddhas
All of those buddhas Promulgated this sūtra.
“The name of this sūtra Is Entering Great Compassion
Buddha qualities will not be hard to attain For the learned one who trains in it.
“When the World’s Guide is in nirvāṇa, In that future time there will b
Many undisciplined bhikṣus Who have no interest in becoming learned.
“They will utter praises of correct conduct But will have no interest in correct conduct
They will utter praises of samādhi But will have no interest in samādhi.
“They will utter praises of wisdom But will have no interest in wisdom
They will utter praises of liberation But will have no interest in liberation.
“It is like when someone Speaks of the qualities of sandalwood, Saying, ‘Sandalwood is like this, It makes a pleasing incense.’
“Then another person asks That man this question: ‘Do you have some of the sandalwood That you have been praising?’
“The man answers him, ‘I speak the praises of that incense And in that way make my living, But I have never seen that incense.’
“In such a way, in future times There will be those who have no correct conduct, Yet they who do not engage in it Will make their living by praising it.
“In that way, in future times There will be those who have no samādhi, Yet they who do not engage in it Will make their living by praising it.
“In that way, in future times There will be those who have no wisdom, Yet they who do not engage in it Will make their living by praising it.
Conclusion of the third chapter, “Praise of the Buddha’s Qualities.
The youth was their leader In this vast holding of the supreme sūtra.
At that time, no less than five hundred people Became holders of the samādhi
I will be endowed with love for them And will uphold this supreme peace, this samādhi.”
“I will have compassion for many beings. I will see beings suffering without a protector
In that time of great terrors I will hold this samādhi of supreme peace.
“I will give up my body and my life And whatever happiness there is in the world
“When the best of beings has passed into nirvāṇa, I will uphold this sūtra in that very difficult time.
The youth Candraprabha was overjoyed, And in the presence of the Buddha he said these words
All attain unequaled, inconceivable enlightenment Through having trained in this samādhi.”
“The buddhas in all directions who have passed away, And those of the future, and those who are present
Forsake all happiness gained through reputation And hold the transmission of this supreme peace of samādhi.
“Therefore, having heard the Jina’s description Of the perfect attainment of those benefits
Gods and humans will be attracted to him, And he will give those beings the supreme wealth.
“Yet when the wise one attains the level Of the unfathomable Dharma treasure
“In that same way, not having attained the samādhi, A bodhisattva is not esteemed By gods or humans
kumbhāṇḍas or rākṣasas, Just like the poor person who has no wealth.
Later finds a treasure And becomes rich, he is respected by the people.
“When a certain poor person, Despised by the populace
“In that way, in future times There will be those who have no liberation, Yet they who do not engage in it Will make their living by praising it.
The Bhagavān replied to Candraprabha
“Young man, the Tathāgata will always give you that opportunity
Ask whatever question you wish of the Tathāgata, the arhat, the perfectly enlightened Buddha.
the tathāgata, the arhat, the perfectly enlightened Buddha.” The Bhagavān addressed the youth Candraprabha, saying
“I have opened the door to the elixir. I have explained what the nature of phenomena is
I have taught what births are. I have explained nirvāṇa and its benefits.
“Always avoid sinful companions, Be in the company of good companions
Dwell in the forest, avoiding crowds, And always meditate with a loving mind.
“Always protect pure conduct, Gain the prosperity of renunciation
Be familiar with generosity and wisdom, And this samādhi will not be difficult to attain.
“This is not the level of the numerous śrāvakas. When you have attained this level of peace
You will have the direct perception of the Sugata’s Dharma And you will attain the inconceivable buddha qualities.
“When you see wise people who are worthy vessels, Bring them to the aspiration for enlightenment
Establish them in the highest knowledge, And then this king of samādhis will not be difficult to attain.
“This samādhi is not difficult to attain For those who understand the natural results That come to those who become envious of wealth And to those who seek and enjoy it.
Take seven steps in the direction of the forests— They will have the superior merit.’
“Young man, King Mahābala heard what the Bhagavān, the tathāgata, the arhat, the perfectly enlightened Buddha Ghoṣadatta sai
“The meditation of this king of samādhis, emptiness, Is at the summit of pure conduct
The continuous meditation on the nature of phenomena Is unknown to the foolish who practice incorrectly.
“Those who long for this samādhi of peace Will never have fear arise in their mind
Those who are on this level of peace Will always see the supreme men.
“Whoever brings to mind the image of the Tathāgata’s body, Their senses will be at peace and their mind at peace
Their minds, free of error, will always be at rest. What they have heard and what they know will be like an ocean.
“Remaining in this samādhi, Wherever the bodhisattvas trea
They will see ten thousand million buddhas And even more, as numerous as the Ganges sands.
“Anyone aiming to take the measure Of the Buddha’s Dharma will go insane
One cannot measure that which is immeasurable; The qualities of the guides in their entirety are inconceivable.
“There is no being in the ten directions Who can equal the Lord of the World, let alone be greater
You should long for and attain the wisdom of the buddhas, Who possess all the qualities of omniscience.
“The Lord of the World is completely beautiful, With a body that is the color of gold
Bodhisattvas will rest in meditation When their mind is focused upon that image.
“The wise who understand the composite and noncomposite Have ceased conceptualizing attributes
They remain in that meditation of the absence of attributes And know the emptiness of all phenomena.
“Those who remain in the dharmakāya Know that all things are nothing
Those who have ceased conceptualizing things Do not see the Lord of Jinas as a rūpakāya.
“I proclaim to you and make it known to you That to the extent that a person contemplates this
To that extent their mind will be fixed upon it, Through that contemplation that dwells upon it.
“Those who remember in that way the appearance And immeasurable wisdom of the Lord of Sages
They will have their mind completely focused upon him Through constant meditation on that recollection.
Conclusion of the fourth chapter, “Samādhi.
And if they practice correct conduct, learning, and generosity It will not be difficult for them to attain this samādhi.”
“Therefore, the wise and the realized Are always aspiring to this samādhi
You will be like a sick man holding a bag of medicine— That alone will not cure his illness.
“I have taught this excellent Dharma But if you do not practice it wel
It is difficult to see the sublime Sugata, So do not have cause for regret in the future.
“Therefore, having heard these benefits, You should long for unequaled enlightenment
They remain in that nature of phenomena And perform bodhisattva conduct without being disheartened.
“Having analyzed with wisdom in that way, They know all present, past, and future phenomena to be empty
They will not lose their recollection of the Buddha, And it will not be stolen away by the experience of suffering.
“When the time comes that they are sick and unwell And experience the suffering of dying
In that way, through the mind’s continuum of meditation, Day and night they see the Lord of the World.
“With serene body, speech, and mind, They constantly recite praises to the buddhas
Remaining in this samādhi, They will pay homage to the buddhas who have great might.
“They will know the buddhas and see the buddhas; They will realize the nature of the buddhas
And pray for enlightenment, wishing to become A jina who is unsurpassable in this world.
“When walking, sitting, or standing, They desire the wisdom of the best of beings
They will have their mind completely focused upon himThrough constant meditation on that recollection.
And immeasurable wisdom of the Lord of Sages
at that time and in those days, there appeared in the world the Bhagavān, the tathāgata, the arhat, the perfectly enlightened Buddha Ghoṣadatta, who was perfect in wisdom and conduct
an unsurpassable guide who tamed beings, a teacher of devas and humans, a buddha, and a bhagavān
There were also countless bodhisattva mahāsattvas who possessed the Dharma
Then the Bhagavān said to the youth Candraprabha
“Young man, bodhisattva mahāsattvas who wish for this samādhi
and wish to attain quickly the highest, complete enlightenment of perfect buddhahood
“Young man, bodhisattva mahāsattvas who wish to attain quickly the highest, complete enlightenment of perfect buddhahoo
which is praised by all the buddhas and is the mother of the tathāgatas
“Therefore, young man, you should be someone who makes practice essential, and always trains in that way
At that time, when they saw the form of the Guide’s body, They developed the aspiration for the supreme wisdom of buddhahood
the Bhagavān, the tathāgata, the arhat, the perfectly enlightened Buddh
and the chief editor Lotsawa Bande Dharmatāśīla, translated and revised this work. It was later modified and finalized in terms of the new translation
One may be able to count out, with the tip of the hundredth part of a hair
But one cannot count the different aspects of their speech
Have no concept of desire and no concept of no desire
Young man, aspiring bodhisattva mahāsattvas think, ‘How can I make manifest the four discernments
Young man, in that way there are infinite, endless, inconceivably numerous words for forms
and the tathāgata, too has inconceivably numerous appellations for them
It is the knowledge of the body’s condition
It is the knowledge of the mind’s condition
It is skill in the presentation of the words for phenomena
It is rational speech
It is knowledge of the world
It is unrestrained generosity. It is being openhanded. It is having a nongrasping mind
It is having a sense of modesty and self-respect
It is an abhorrence of negative aspirations
It is not forsaking the qualities of purification
It is maintaining correct conduct. It is joyful conduct
It is standing up to welcome gurus and presenting them with a seat
It is the elimination of pride
It is controlling the mind
It is the knowledge of generating enthusiasm
It is the knowledge of discernment. It is the realization of wisdom
It is being without ignorance. It is knowledge of the processes of the mind. It is the knowledge that realizes the nature of the mind
It is the knowledge of accomplishment and definite accomplishment
It is the knowledge of all language. It is the knowledge of presenting definitions. It is the knowledge of attaining certainty in meaning
It is abandoning that which is harmful
It is being together with excellent beings. It is avoiding bad beings
It is the accomplishment of dhyāna. It is not savoring dhyāna
It is the utilization of the higher cognitions
It is the knowledge that comprehends the nature of assigned names and designations
It is overcoming designations. It is disillusionment with saṃsāra
It is the absence of yearning for respect. It is indifference to lack of respect
It is not being motivated by material gain. It is not being disheartened when there is no gain
It is the absence of interest in honor. It is the absence of anger at dishonor
It is the absence of attachment to praise. It is the absence of displeasure in response to criticism
It is the absence of attachment to happiness. It is the absence of aversion to suffering
It is not being acquisitive of composite things
It is having no attachment to renown. It is accepting the lack of renown
It is not associating with householders and mendicants
It is avoiding that which is outside the scope of correct conduct
It is acting within the scope of correct conduct. It is a perfection of correct conduct. It is rejecting incorrect conduct
It is not dishonoring your family
It is preserving the teaching
It is speaking little. It is speaking softly. It is speaking slowly
It is skillfulness in answers. It is defeating opposition
It is arriving at the right time
It is not relying on ordinary people
It is not having contempt for those in suffering. It is giving them charity
It is not rebuking the poor. It is having compassion for those with wrong conduct
It is having that which will bring benefit to others. It is having a compassionate mind. It is benefiting others through the Dharma. It is giving away material things
It is the absence of hoarding
It is praising correct conduct. It is condemning incorrect conduct
It is unwaveringly attending upon those who have correct conduct
It is giving up all possessions. It is welcoming others with a higher motivation
It is doing exactly what one has said one will do
It is perpetual application
It is experiencing joy through veneration
It is the knowledge of using examples. It is being skilled in terms of past lifetimes
It is putting roots of merit first. It is skill in methods
It is the negation of attributes. It is rejecting identification. It is knowledge of the characteristics of things
It is the accomplishment of the sūtras. It is skill in the vinaya
It is certainty in the truth. It is the direct experience of liberation
It is the single teaching. It is not abandoning correct knowing and seeing
It is speech free of doubt
It is remaining in emptiness. It is remaining in the absence of attributes
It is understanding the nature of the absence of aspiration
It is the attainment of fearlessness
It is illumination by wisdom. It is excellent correct conduct
It is entering into samāpatti
It is delighting in solitude
It is knowledge of oneself
It is contentment with having no high reputation
It is the absence of pollution in the mind. It is rejecting incorrect views
It is the attainment of mental retention
It is the entrance into knowledge
Your body, speech, and mind are perfectly pure
Seeking the supreme, highest enlightenment
You, the Guide, practiced for millions of eons As numerous as the grains of sand in the Ganges
It is the unsurpassable wealth of the bodhisattvas. Does the Jina teach this samādhi
‘It is the seal of the nature of all phenomena. It is the transmission of a quintillion sūtras
‘It is the purity of the body, the purity of speech, The purity of the mind, and the purity of view
It transcends all objects of the mind. Does the Jina teach this samādhi
In those buddha realm
Thousands of realms, As numerous as the Ganges sands
Were illuminated by that lamp, Which was like the fire at an eon’s end
All the realms became filled With flowers and sandalwood powder
Up to kneeheight From the ground
Jewels and flowers of every kin
Attain the thirty-two primary signs, The ten strengths, and the distinct qualities of a buddha