The Cintāmaṇi (Wish-Fulfilling Jewel) Instruction A Sādhana of the Glorious Vajrasattva, a Method of Purification and Accomplishment for Both Self and Others Taking Refuge Generating Bodhicitta Actual Sādhana
Namo!
From now until I attain the essence of awakening
I take refuge in the sovereign of all lineages and oceanic maṇḍalas,
The Guru Vajrasattva,
With confident faith and devotion.
I shall persevere physically, verbally and mentally,
And never depart from the path to awakening;
So as to bring everyone throughout the reaches of space
To relief in the stable bliss of enlightenment.
Āḥ. In front of me, amidst oceanic clouds of offerings,
Is a throne of white lotus and moon cushion,
Upon which is Vajrasattva, embodiment of all buddha lineages.
He is brilliant white with the glow of the full moon.
He has one face and holds a bell and vajra in his two hands,
And is seated cross-legged in full sambhogakāya attire.
The light-rays of his wisdom radiate throughout the ten directions.
All of this appears vividly and clearly in my mind.
Kyema! Guru Vajrasattva,
Please recall your promise:
Think of us poor, wretched beings,
And hold us in your compassion.
Throughout beginningless time until now,
We have committed misdeeds and transgressions physically, verbally, and mentally.
Realising this, we feel as regretful and sorrowful
As if we had ingested poison.
We openly admit and confess these deeds before you.
In future, even at the cost of our lives, we’ll not waste this opportunity by repeating them.
Look lovingly upon us
And grant us relief with your tender embrace.
For us and all sentient beings,
Purify all impairments and breaches of samaya
And let us accomplish all common and supreme attainments
Right now, this very instant!
oṃ vajrasattva hūṃ
Hūm. I hereby dedicate this, and all merit accrued throughout the three times,
To the welfare of all infinite beings.
May each and every one of them
Swiftly achieve the state of Vajrasattva.
Oṃ. May all that appears be purified as an adornment of kāya, the deity’s form;
May all sound be perfected as mantra, the deity’s speech;
May all memories and thought mature within the deity’s wisdom mind;
And may all be auspicious, excellent and splendid!