The Source of Abundant Merit: A Feast-Offering for the Secret Practice of the Great Compassionate One, Natural Liberation of Suffering from The Heart-Essence of the Vast Expanse 1. The Blessing 2. Inviting the Field of Merit 3. Offering the First Portion 4. Confession 5. Liberation and Offering 6. Dedicating the Remainder 7. Invoking the Sacred Pledge 8. Invoking the Covenant 9. Maintaining the Relationship with the Tenma Goddesses 10. The Horse Dance 13 11. Receiving the Accomplishments 12. Confession of Mistakes 13. Dissolution 14. Dedication and Aspiration 15. Verses of Auspiciousness
Namo lokeśvara-gaṇacakra-pūjā hoḥ
From my heart, the syllables raṃ , yaṃ , and khaṃ stream out
To purify any faults or defects in the feast offerings.
Oṃ , āḥ , and hūṃ transform the offerings into amṛta,
And sensual delights multiply until they are as infinite as space.
raṃ yaṃ khaṃ | oṃ āḥ hūṃ
Hūṃ. From the Unsurpassed, 4 the realm of great bliss,
The Potala Mountain in the South,
Which is the abode of the Great Compassionate One
And the Tamer of Beings’ emanated pure realm,
All you deities of the maṇḍala of Natural Liberation of Suffering
Are invited to this feast gathering—come, we pray.
The charnel ground’s hall of gathering is full of joy,
The assembly of ḍākinīs so joyous and inspiring,
The yogins and yoginīs so pure in their samaya,
The sumptuous feast offerings aglow with splendour.
Come, shower down your blessings on this feast!
Grant us attainments, ordinary and supreme!
Hūṃ. To the Three Roots of the Compassionate One’s maṇḍala,
Emanated deities of the Tamer of Beings,
We offer you this sumptuous feast of sensual delights.
Grant us attainments, ordinary and supreme!
gaṇacakra-pūjā khāhi
Hūṃ. Throughout the course of my lives without beginning,
Any transgressions of the root or branch samayas
I have committed since entering the Great Vehicle’s Secret Mantra,
With this feast offering of sensory delights, I now confess!
vajra-samaya āḥ
Hūṃ. Ignorance, karma, afflictions and dualistic grasping,
Together with their creations, ego-clinging and all rudras—
Let them be brought into this form— nṛ tṛ jaḥ .
Let their consciousness enter the dharmadhātu expanse— phaṭ!
And let their body be enjoyed as the feast offering.
rudra sarva hala pañca pūjā khāhi
Hūṃ. You who dwell on the periphery of the great maṇḍala,
Īśvarī, kiṃkara and laṅkā spirits,
Accept this remainder torma
And guard us yogins against obstacles to practice!
Ucchiṣṭa-baliṃ te khāhi
Hūṃ. Rise up, all you deities of the Natural Liberation of Suffering!
Take form out of the dharmadhātu!
Crush any obstacles to our attainment of awakening!
Halt the decline of the elements in the environment and beings!
Heal any weakness of the channels, wind-energies and authentic presence! 5
And cause our practice to bear fruit!
Hūṃ. Long ago, in the Unsurpassed realm of great bliss,
In places full of joy, like the Three Divine Realms, 6
When the great secret tantras were revealed,
The guardians of the teachings of Vajrayāna
Were assigned places in keeping with their pledges.
Then, in Tibet, the land of snows,
When the master Lotus Skull-Garland 7
Turned the wheel of Secret Mantra Dharma,
He seized the life-force of all major gods and demons
And brought them within his ranks.
Finally, in the pure land of luminosity,
Within the palace of great bliss,
The vidyādhara Pema Wangchen, 8
Was empowered by the Lotus-Born 9 and Drimé Özer, 10
With the profound seal of the Vast Expanse. 11
When the ḍākinī of the all-pervading space of wisdom
Entrusted him with the symbolic script to reveal the Luminous Expanse,
You, Wild Za, ‘Razor of the Life-Force’ 12 and the rest,
Took a solemn oath to guard this teaching.
So, accept this offering torma with all its ornaments,
And carry out the four types of enlightened activity!
Hūṃ. You, who obey the command of the Awesome One and protect Tibet,
Twelve Tenma Goddesses—mothers and sisters—
Come! Accept this cleansing water of the torma,
And carry out the activities entrusted to you!
ma ma hriṃ hriṃ baliṅ te khāhi
Hūṃ. In this maṇḍala of the Compassionate One, Tamer of Beings,
All the corrupting spirits of samaya violation
Are held beneath the seal of the nine vehicles.
Let them never rise again!
sthaṃ bha ya nen
Hūṃ. Deities of the maṇḍala of the Great Compassionate One:
The commitments of approach and accomplishment are fulfilled,
And the dawn of Vajrasattva is breaking.
The time has come to grant us the accomplishments!
From the maṇḍalas of body, speech, and mind
Inspire us with blessings of the three vajras
Of supreme, secret wisdom that is unconfined.
And grant us all the attainments, ordinary and supreme,
Here and now, this very instant, I pray!
oṃ maṇi padme hūṃ hrīḥ | kāya-vākka-citta a la la sarva-siddhi-phala hūṃ
Hūṃ. In this maṇḍala of the Great Compassionate One,
If my offerings were incomplete, my practice inattentive,
Or my meditation drowsy, dull or lifeless—
Please forgive all such error and  confusion.
oṃ vajrasattva samayam anupālaya vajrasattva-tvenopa-tiṣṭha dṛḍho me bhava sutoṣyo me bhava supoṣyo me bhava anurakto me bhava sarva-siddhiṃ me prayaccha sarva-karma śuca me cittaṃ śreyaṅ-kuru hūṃ ha ha ha ha hoḥ bhagavān sarva-tathāgata-vajra mā me muñca vajrī-bhava mahā-samaya-sattva āḥ
Hoḥ. Just like bubbles formed out of water,
The deities of the self-emanated maṇḍala
Dissolve into wisdom’s basic space— vajra muḥ !
In post-meditation, everything arises as the deity’s illusory form.
Hoḥ. All sources of virtue accumulated in the three times,
I dedicate as the cause for realizing primordial omniscience.
May I and all those assembled here
Attain enlightenment together, in a single maṇḍala!
oṃ ye dharmā hetu prabhavā hetun teṣāṃ tathāgato hy avadat teṣāṃ ca yo nirodha evaṃ vādī mahāśramaṇaḥ svāhā
Hoḥ. Through the blessing of the lineage of vidyādharas,
The truth of the Three Rare and Sublime Ones,
And the interdependent circumstances of profound Secret Mantra,
May all be auspicious, to pacify the eight fears!
May all be auspicious, for extending longevity and merit!
May all be auspicious, to bring perception under our control!
May all be auspicious, to annihilate negative, misleading forces!
With all attachment to perception transformed and perfected as the form of the deity,
All sound purified into the great bliss of mantra,
All thoughts matured into the luminosity of dharmakāya,
May all be auspicious, so that we attain the translucent rainbow body!