The Glorious Gift of Longevity and Granting All Desires A Liturgy for Saving Lives
From now on until we reach the essence of awakening, I and all sentient beings take refuge in Amitāyus, the Victor of Boundless Life and Wisdom.
In order to free all beings from the fear of death, and so they attain the sublime level of unending deathlessness, we will engage in the virtue of saving lives.
oṃ namo bhagavate aparimitāyur-jñāna-suviniścita-tejo-rājāya tathāgatāya arhate samyak saṃbuddhāya | tadyathā | oṃ puṇye puṇye mahā-puṇye 'parimita-puṇye 'parimita-puṇya-jñāna-saṃbhāropacite | oṃ sarva-saṃskāra-pariśuddhe dharmate gagana-samudgate svabhāva-viśuddhe mahā-naya-parivāre svāhā |
oṃ ye dharmā hetu prabhāvā hetuṃ teṣāṃ tathāgato hyavadat | teṣāṃ ca yo nirodha evaṃ vādī mahāśramaṇaḥ svāhā ||
oṃ svabhāva śuddhāḥ sarvadharmāḥ svabhāva śuddho ‘haṃ
Out of the state of emptiness, the body, aggregates, elements, and sense fields of the beings that are the focal point of the practice become inconceivable cloud banks of offerings, whose nature is complete purity and great bliss.
oṃ āḥ hūṃ
namaḥ sarvatathāgatebhyo viśvamukhebhyaḥ | sarvathā kham udgate spharaṇa imaṃ gaganakhaṃ svāhā ||
Kyé! To the buddhas residing in the ten directions’ pure realms,
To the Dharma, and to the Saṅgha,
To the gathering of gurus, devas, and ḍākinīs,
To the dharmapālas, wealth deities and treasure guardians,
To the chief local deities, and to those who guard virtue,
To the deities with power over life, who guard life, who control life,
And to all the deities who nurture and protect life
I make this sacred offering.
May all sentient beings, endowed with consciousness
And the breath that supports their vitality, be freed
Of all that endangers their life and be relieved of their fears.
Their aggregates, elements, and sense fields
Are clouds of offerings, by nature completely pure.
They bring pleasure that fills the entire sky,
The great bliss of everything to delight the senses.
May these substances that bring supreme immortality,
Manifested here in a boundless and infinite array,
Fulfil your sacred and weighty pledges,
And bring the most sublime and supreme delight! 2
May all infinite sentient beings —
Headed by us and all sponsors and donors —
Be freed from all obstacles that bring untimely death.
May we live for an extremely long time,
And may every form of goodness and happiness be ours!
May any degeneration of the aggregates and elements be restored!
May the vital essence of the inanimate and animate universe be rejuvenated!
May our longevity and wellbeing, our radiance and splendour flourish!
May we be free from illness and possess the wealth of Dharma!
Until we and all sentient beings
Reach unsurpassed awakening,
Throughout all our lives,
May we always have supreme immortality.
Through this merit
May all infinite sentient beings
Attain the vajrakāya, beyond birth and death,
The sublime level of Lord Amitāyus.
Through the auspicious connection of having done this good act
May the form and life of the glorious gurus be perfectly stable,
May their wondrous activities fill all the ten directions
And may the wishes of their awakened minds be completely fulfilled!