Self-Arising Wisdom Songtsen Gampo Guru Sādhana
Ah. Out of the state of emptiness, in the sky before me
Appears a vast celestial palace made of precious water crystal,
And in its centre,
Upon a throne decorated with jewels
And piles of silken cushions,
Is the emanated king, Lord Songtsen,
Brilliant white, smiling serenely and adorned with major and minor marks.
He wears a king's attire and a brocade cloak.
His right hand is in the Dharma-teaching mudrā and his left rests in equanimity
And holds the 'mighty sovereign' wish-granting jewel.
On his head he wears a turban of white silk,
With Buddha Amitābha seated at his crown.
His two feet are in the posture of royal ease.
At his heart is noble Avalokiteśvara with eleven faces,
And at his heart appears Avalokiteśvara Khasarpaṇi
With two arms and in standing form.
They all appear clearly in this way.
From the three syllables at their three centres
Rays of light stream out to invite the wisdom deities.
You are the protectors of all beings, every single one.
You are the deities who remorselessly destroy the māras and their forces.
You who know all things just as they are, in their true nature,
Enlightened ones, with your retinues, come now to this place!
Enlightened ones, over countless incalculable aeons,
Because of your love for sentient beings, you cultivated compassion.
Your aspirations are vast, your vision all complete,
And if now is the time you intend to benefit beings,
Then from the palace of the dharmadhātu, spontaneously perfect,
Display all kinds of magical emanations and blessings,
And to liberate limitless sentient beings,
Come now, I pray and with you your retinue, in all their utter purity.
You are the lords of all dharmas;
Like the hue of refined gold,
Your brilliance brighter than the sun.
With faith and devotion, I invite you here.
You possess peace and great compassion,
You reside in gentleness and the stages of concentration;
You possess Dharma and wisdom free from desire,
And strength that is completely inexhaustible.
Come now, come from that state of peace,
Mighty sages, supreme beings, omniscient ones,
Assume exquisite illusory forms,
And come to this place of offerings, I pray!
Enlightened ones, welcome, now that you have come.
We have such good fortune and merit.
Accept these offerings and then
Turn your minds towards us, please.
In your compassion for us and other beings,
Through your miraculous powers,
Remain here, we pray,
For as long as we continue to make offerings.
jaḥ hūṃ baṃ hoḥ | samaya tiṣṭha lhen
To you I pray, supremely noble Avalokiteśvara,
To you I pray, emanated king: care for me.
To you I pray, Lord Songtsen Gampo.
To you I pray, inspire me with your blessings.
Grant supreme and ordinary attainments, I pray.
Inspire me to master sublime bodhicitta.
Inspire me to benefit beings immeasurably.
Emanated king, may I become your equal!
oṃ āḥ mahāguru lokeśvara nirmakāya dharmarāja sarva siddhi hūṃ
From the realms of the emanated king,
A mass of enlightened forms, mantra-garlands and insignia showers down like rain, accompanied by rays of light.
It all dissolves into me, and I receive empowerment.
Obscurations are purified, and the seeds of the four kāyas are implanted.
Finally the guru dissolves into me,
And I too appear clearly as the emanated king.
At my heart, upon a moon disc, is the syllable Hūṃ,
Surrounded by the rotating mantra garland,
From which light emanates to accomplish my own and others' welfare,
So that the environment and beings within it become forms of the Noble One.
oṃ maṇi padme hūṃ
Finally, I recognize both the deity and guru
As the singular display of my own mind.
And I rest in the basic nature of awareness,
In which emptiness and compassion are indivisible.