Guru Yoga of Jetsün Lochen, Queen of Yoginīs Preliminary: Refuge and Bodhicitta Main Practice Accumulation through the Seven Branches Prayer Mantra Recitation Conclusion: Receiving Empowerment
Namo jñāna-ḍākinyai!
Ah. In the guru and three-kāya deities,
Recognizing my own true nature, I take refuge.
In order to self-liberate dualistic perception,
In great primordial freedom, I generate bodhicitta.
Ah. In the utter purity of my own perception, in the sky before me,
In a visionary expanse of spontaneously rainbow-coloured light,
Upon lotus, moon, sun and corpse,
Is the foremost yoginī and accomplished vidyādharā,
Chönyi Wangmo, who is white with a reddish glow.
With her right hand she plays a skull-bone hand-drum.
Her left hand, in the gesture of equanimity, holds a skull-cup vase.
The khaṭvāṅga , which she holds, represents the glorious heruka.
She is naked but for skirt and bone ornaments.
Her two feet are half-crossed in a posture of ease.
Her three centres are marked with three syllables,
From which light radiates out to invite the wisdom forms that merge with the visualization
In the great inseparability of samayasattva and jñānasattva.
To the hosts deities of the guru who is my own awareness,
I pay homage, with devotion in body, speech and mind.
I present actual offerings and those created in the imagination.
In the unborn state, I confess my misdeeds and downfalls.
Free from dualistic perception, I rejoice.
Turn the indestructible Dharma Wheel, I pray.
Remain, I beseech you, beyond transference and change.
All accumulated virtues, to the youthful vase body I dedicate.
May we attain the state of Samantabhadra.
Outwardly, you are the vidyādharā Chönyi Wangmo;
Inwardly, you are Tsogyal, queen of space, the lady of great bliss;
And secretly, you are the naturally arisen Vajrayoginī—
To you I pray: bestow supreme and ordinary attainments!
oṃ āḥ guru jñāna ḍākini sarva siddhi phala hūṃ
From the three vajra syllables at the guru’s three places,
Emerge rays of light—white, red and blue—first in turn,
Then all at once, which dissolve into my own three centres.
Obscurations are purified, I receive empowerment and accomplishment,
And the seeds of the three kāyas are implanted within my mindstream.
At the end, the guru is pleased and dissolves into me.
Untainted by thoughts of past, present or future, I remain in the genuine state,
And in the clear light of my own awareness, gaze into my own true face, dharmakāya.