The Blazing Tower A Daily Practice of Uṣṇīṣa-Sitātapatrā The Preparation The Main Part The Conclusion
namo guru uṣṇīṣāya
In the Guru, Three Jewels, and Sitātapatrā,
With the deepest devotion I take refuge.
So that all beings, as limitless as the sky, reach unsurpassed awakening,
I shall meditate on blazing Sitātapatrā.
May all sentient beings enjoy happiness!
May they be freed from every kind of suffering!
May they never be apart from happiness!
May they realize the equality of all phenomena!
Within the state of the emptiness of all phenomena,
Appears an indestructible vajra protection circle.
In its centre, within a precious palace, perfect in every aspect,
Upon a lion throne and a lotus and moon-disc seat,
Rests the syllable oṃ , from which appears a wheel marked with the syllable oṃ .
Rays of light radiate forth making offerings to the noble ones,
Accomplishing the benefit of sentient beings, and eliminating all evil forces and obstacles. 1
As the light gathers back, it transforms instantly
And I take the form of the white Uṣṇīṣa Queen,
With a thousand heads—peaceful, mesmerizing, furiously raging—
Covered with a trillion 2 eyes.
With her thousand arms she brandishes weapons,
Wheels, white parasols and so forth, all ablaze.
Her thousand legs in the posture of royal ease, stretched out, or drawn in
Stomp down upon all evil forces, obstacles and spirits.
Adorned with jewels and precious divine garments,
She stands within a limitless expanse of blazing light.
She is the Great Exalted Vajra,
Ruler of the maṇḍala of the three planes of existence,
Mighty queen with exceptional power.
Her three places are marked with oṃ , āḥ , and hūṃ , and in her heart’s centre,
Upon a moon disc is a white syllable oṃ .
Rays of light radiate forth inviting the wisdom ladies 3
In the same forms as myself, who melt into me.
With vajra-samājaḥ, jaḥ, hūṃ, baṃ, hoḥ we merge indissociably.
Once again, the empowerment deities 4 are invoked
And they grant the empowerment with the amṛta flowing from their vases.
The amṛta fills my body, clearing all obscurations. With Vairocana as their chief,
The buddhas of the five families then adorn Sitātapatrā’s head.
The seed syllable in her heart is encircled by the mantra garland,
Which shines like shimmering pearls as it spins.
Light radiates forth,
Gathering all the potent blessings of the buddhas and bodhisattvas.
As the blessings dissolve into me, my power and wisdom increase.
I perform the four activities according to beings’ needs, and
Everything is effortlessly accomplished just as I wish.
tadyathā | oṃ anale anale | khasame khasame | vaire vaire | saumye saumye | sarva-buddhādiṣṭhānādhiṣṭhite sarva-tathāgatoṣṇīṣa-sitātapatre hūṃ phaṭ | hūṃ ma ma hūṃ ni svāhā ||
oṃ sarva-tathāgatoṣṇīṣa hūṃ phaṭ | hūṃ ma ma hūṃ ni svāhā ||
By the power and truth of actualizing your divine form and reciting your vidyā-mantra, I and all in need of protection are relieved from every evil force and danger.
Blessed Sitātapatrā Born from Tathāgata’s Uṣṇīṣa, Vajroṣṇīṣā, Great Dispeller, great goddess with a thousand arms, great goddess with a thousand heads, great goddess with a trillion eyes and indestructible blazing characteristics, Great Exalted Vajra Goddess, 5 ruler of the maṇḍala of the three planes of existence, 6 please protect me and all who depend on me.
Relieve us from each and every evil force and danger!
Dispel all diseases and illnesses!
Protect us in your every appearance as vidyā and mudrā deities!
tadyathā | oṃ ṣṭom bandha bandha mama rāḳsa rāḳsa svāhā || oṃ ṣṭoṃ bandha bandha vajra mama rāḳsa rāḳsa vajrapāṇi hūṃ phaṭ svāhā ||
Impart a loving mindset to all those who are harmful and aim to do us harm, who are dangerous or harbor dangerous intentions, who are evil or harbor evil intentions, who are vicious or harbor vicious intentions, who are aggressive or harbor aggressive intentions! Protect us and all beings!
Make us live a hundred years!
Let us see a hundred autumns!
An immeasurable mass of fire, weapons, and wrathful deities shoots forth from my body, crushing, expelling, binding and thus exterminating all opposing forces, sorcery, witchcraft, and adversities:
Blessed Sitātapatrā Born from the Tathāgata’s Uṣṇīṣa, Vajroṣṇīṣā, Great Dispeller: By the power and truth of your vidyās, mudrās, and mantras and by the force of your might and majesty, for us, our family and friends, all hatred, bad dreams, evil omens, diseases, enemies and dangers are averted!
Whether of gods, ṛṣis, sorcerers, evil forces, spirits, or otherwise, in short, the spells cast by all wicked beings whether worldly or beyond are broken! They are struck with the kīla!
oṃ sarva-tathāgatoṣṇīṣānale avalokite curṇate jvarāśi || oṃ jvala jvala dhaka dhaka dhara dhara vidhara vidhara chinda chinda bhindha bhindha hūṃ hūṃ phaṭ phaṭ svāhā ||
Blessed Sitātapatrā, and your hosts of deities,
Through your unobstructed power and strength,
And the force of your compassionate aspirations,
May you fulfil these prayers of ours:
Cause the teachings of Buddha to flourish,
And all beings to gain happiness!
For our patrons and those around us,
May tragedy and disaster be averted!
May all bad signs in dreams be dispelled!
May all inauspicious omens and circumstances be averted!
May the malevolence and harm of enemies and hostile forces be averted!
May the eighty-four evil omens be averted!
May the three hundred and sixty forms of daily suffering be averted!
May the four hundred and four types of disease 8 be averted!
May the eighty thousand types of obstacle-making forces be averted!
May the eight kinds of untimely death be averted!
May initial misfortune be averted! 9
May persistent misfortune be averted! 10
May fatal conflict be averted!
May misfortune arising from mistreatment of ancestral spirits be averted!
May sickness among men and women be averted!
May loss in our resources be averted!
May calamities in the atmosphere be averted!
May calamities on the earth be averted!
May unfavourable signs in astrological squares and trigrams be averted!
May astrological hindrances and recurrent calamity be averted!
May all adversity be averted! 11
The universe and all its inhabitants dissolve into me,
And I too dissolve into the dharmadhātu, beyond reference.
Once again, I arise in the form of the deity,
Protected as such by the three vajras.
Through the merit of this, may I swiftly
Attain the realization of the Uṣṇīṣa Queen
And thereby every single sentient being
Likewise reach this state of perfection!