Illuminating the Meaning of Empowerment A Self-Initiation for the Female Practice of the Ḍākinī 1. The Preliminaries 2. The Main Part 1. Consecrating the Maṇḍala 2. The Self-Initiation 1. [The Cleansing] 2. The Request 3. Gathering the Accumulations 4. Taking the Vows 4. Entering the Maṇḍala 5. Taking Birth as Their Heir 6. Descent of Wisdom 7. The Prayer 8. The Actual Bestowing of the Empowerment 1. The Vase Empowerment 2. The Secret Empowerment 3. The Insight-Wisdom Empowerment 4. The Absolute Empowerment 3. The Concluding Stages 1. The General 2. The Specific
The gateway to complete liberation—
The interdependent origination of reality devoid of inherent existence—
Is the space of the Vajra Queen.
Remembering that it is complete with the supreme of all qualities, delight in it!
oṃ vajra krodha hayagrīva hulu hulu hūṃ phaṭ
oṃ āḥ hūṃ
Just as the gods cleansed your body
Moments after you took birth,
With the purest water of the gods,
Likewise I now bestow empowerment.
oṃ sarva tathāgata abhiṣekate samaya śrīye hūṃ
oṃ cakṣu bhandha vāra maṇāya hūṃ
aḥ khaṃ vīra hūṃ 4
Omniscient one, embodiment of primordial wisdom, 5
Who thoroughly purifies the wheel of existence––
Lord, with your kindness, grant me this precious treasure
Of which you have spoken today. 6
I prostrate to the vajra master,
Glorious embodiment of the buddhas of past, present and future!
With a mind free from all duality,
I take refuge in the Three Jewels, the objects of reliance!
I request that you accept these pure offerings,
Both actual and envisioned.
My faults, the hindrances that cut the flow of siddhis,
I confess without exception.
In all those actions throughout the ten directions, done without attachment,
And free from concepts of subject, object and action, I rejoice!
I awaken the perfect bodhicitta,
Pure, untainted by the four extremes. 7
To the sugatas, mighty lords and sentient beings 8
I offer my body for the threefold purpose. 9
Gathering the merits accumulated throughout all my lives,
I dedicate them to supreme enlightenment!
Bliss Gone One, 10 whatever you are like,
May I become exactly the same,
And carry out wondrous, inconceivable actions
In order to bring benefit to beings.
The vows of the supreme mind set upon awakening
And the mudrās of body, speech and mind,
Even at the cost of my own life, I shall not forsake.
Vajra king, inspire me with your blessings.
Imagine that the master leads, with his hands, your eight adventitious consciousnesses to the sole entrance of the single sphere, 11 awareness, the essence of your buddha nature.
aḥ khaṃ bīra hūṃ
oṃ nama te hūṃ
oṃ nama me hūṃ
oṃ namo nama hūṃ
Imagine that you place yourself in front of the venerable Vajrayoginī upon an empowerment platform in the form of a lotus with eight petals. From the heart of the main deity and the Lord of the Families arises a red raṃ syllable, the nature of bliss, which purifies the ripened aggregates, including the eight consciousnesses such as the all-ground consciousness.
Your consciousness transforms into a tāṃ syllable. It enters the mouth of the Lord of the Families, flowing down the shape of his body, and falls into the secret space of the consort.
It transforms into bodhicitta, indivisible from the melting bliss, that is then placed upon the empowerment platform mentioned before.
Out of empty form, which has the character of light,
Arises the ḍākinī Queen of Great Bliss.
She has one face and two hands; her body is red in colour.
She is naked, standing in the posture of equanimity, yet ready to act.
Passionate and smiling,
In her right hand she holds a small skull-drum
That is raised and played close to her ear.
In her left hand she holds a hooked knife, the handle
Resting on her hip; her bearing is imposing and graceful.
Her bhaga is expanded and her breasts swell.
She is adorned with jewels and youthful ornaments
And wears a garland of white lotus flowers.
The six bone ornaments adorn her body,
Her black, glistening hair is plaited,
And her jewelled diadem shines majestically.
Her central eye gazes into all-encompassing space.
Her sambhogakāya eye tames beings.
Her nirmāṇakāya eye summons the three realms.
In her body the maṇḍalas of all the classes of tantra are perfectly complete. 12
In her heart is Lady Ārya Tārā,
Blue-green in colour, with one face and two hands.
In her heart is the wisdom deity Vārāhī,
Shiny black in colour and holding a hooked knife and skull-cup.
These are the three nested beings 13 ; your five places
Are marked by the five implements and the five seed syllables.
From them, light radiates out
To The Unsurpassed, 14 the celestial realms,
The Land of Turquoise Leaves and the Realm of Lotus Light,
Inviting the wisdom deities from their homes.
They dissolve into you, becoming inseparable.
Hūṃ! In the country known as India
Lies the supreme sacred land of Uḍḍiyāna,
As well as Dhumathala, its citadel of ḍākinīs,
And also Cāmaradvīpa, supreme isle of isles.
In reality they are the Unsurpassed, the pure realm of great bliss,
Yet they appear as emanated celestial realms.
From all those places where you joyfully reside,
Great dharmakāya mother Tsogyal,
Together with your retinue of hundreds of thousands of ḍākinīs,
Come! Inspire me with your blessings––
Shower down your blessings on this supreme place!
Grant me, a supreme practitioner, the four empowerments!
Dispel obstructing forces, corrupting influences and hindrances!
Grant me the supreme and ordinary accomplishments!
oṃ padmo-yoginī tāre tuttāre ture jñāna-vārāhī pheṃ pheṃ
tiṣṭha vajra
pratīccha vajra hoḥ
prati gṛhaṇa imam satva mahābala
cakṣu praveśaya phaṭ
As the Vajra of Enlightenment bestowed
The supreme worship on the Buddhas,
Bestow it now upon me,
O Vajra Space, for my salvation. 16
Hoḥ. The unsurpassable samayas of Secret Mantra
Of the naturally arisen, spontaneously present vase empowerment,
The sacred empowerment of the three secrets of all the buddhas—
I bestow upon you!
oṃ padmo-yoginī tāre tuttāre ture jñāna-vārāhī kalaśābhiṣiñca hūṃ
Imagine that this ambrosia is the actual bodhicitta of the master and his consort, and that you receive it from the secret space of the consort. Drink it in a single gulp.
Hoḥ. The samaya of bodhicitta
Dissolves into the circle of syllables in the channels and elements.
Everything arises from the inexpressible state.
May you obtain the speech empowerment of sound-emptiness.
bodhicittābhiṣiñca āh 17
The mantra garland arises from the heart of the front visualization
And enters into the mouth of the self-visualization.
It revolves around the syllable at my heart.
Blessed One, I will follow you.
Please take care of me.
Blessed One, bestow the empowerment
And your command upon me.
Bestow the accomplishment of Secret Mantra
And make my yogic conduct stable.
Hold the support— sindūra , the embodiment of the four joys—and the supported—the bell—in your hands. Imagine that these are the supports that show liberation, where skilful means and insight are united.
Hoḥ. The primordial wisdom in which all qualities are complete
Depends entirely on the four joys.
The samaya in which skilful means and insight are united,
The great mudrā, you should enjoy.
jaḥ hūṃ baṃ hoḥ
This is the samaya of great enjoyment.
Think that with 'a ho mahāsukhaḥ' bliss is used as the skilful means through which the innate bliss is stabilized definitively.
Focus your awareness on the sound of the bell ringing
And rest in the nature of reality, which cannot be illustrated even by the example wisdom that arises on the basis of skilful means.
Hoḥ. Sound is audible, yet empty.
Likewise, mind is devoid of essence.
In the essenceless natural state
Abandon the ‘looked at’ and perfectly look.
a aḥ
As samaya commitments for having received the four empowerments,
I pledge never to abandon the vajra master,
To observe continually the twenty-fifth day of the lunar calendar, 18
To honour and respect young women,
And always to cultivate twofold bodhicitta.
Whatever the guru, chief of the maṇḍala, commands,
I shall carry out—each and every instruction.
I offer myself entirely to you.
Accept me as your student and I will follow your words in detail.