Streams of Sapphire A Prayer to the Eighty-Four Mahāsiddhas
Homage to glorious Vajrasattva!
You are the sovereign pervading all things animate and inanimate,
The universally supreme state of great-bliss unity—
All-pervading lord, Vajradhara, I pray to you!
Vidyādharas who’ve reached accomplishment,
As numerous as the atoms of the ocean,
Unfathomable to ordinary beings,
In devotion to you, the eighty-four mighty yogins
Assembled here in this maṇḍala gathering,
By recalling your liberating life-examples, I pay homage to you!
Thought-free eater of fish, Lūyipa;
Innately mindful one, Līlapa;
Master of yogic practices, Virūpa;
Self-arisen vajra form, Ḍombipa;
Slayer of the deer of thinking, Śavaripa;
Lords of Khecharī, I pray to you all!
Attainer of the supreme siddhi, Saraha;
Actualizer of vajra non-self, Kaṅkāripa;
Master of the highest mundane siddhis, Gorakṣapa;
Attainer of the siddhi of immortality, Caurāṅgipa;
Realizer of the ultimate through the sound of a lute, Vīṇāpa—
Chiefs of all siddhas, I pray to you all!
Attainer of the supreme siddhi, Śāntipa;
Your body as youthful as a sixteen-year-old, Tantipa;
Realizer of the spontaneous dharmakāya, Cāmāripa;
Master of the sword of primordial wisdom, Khaḍgapa;
Foretold by the victors, noble Nāgārjuna—
Mighty vajradharas, I pray to you all!
Chief of siddhas, venerable Kṛṣṇācārya;
Chief of scholars and siddhas, Āryadeva;
Realizer of the absence of arising and ceasing, Thaganapa;
Attainer of the supreme siddhi by means of hardship, Nāropa;
Naturally liberated, fearless Śalipa—
Masters of conduct, I pray to you all!
Binder of cakras, 1 glorious Tilopa;
Mighty yogi, glorious Cattrapa;
Realizer of emptiness, venerable yogi Bhadrapa;
Deity, mantra, and dharmakāya inseparable, Dukhaṅdi;
Attainer of the supreme through the path of the second empowerment, Ajogipa—
Mighty yogis, I pray to you all!
Intoxicated by realizing the definitive meaning, Kālapa;
Cleanser of impurity’s stains, Dhobīpa;
Free from attachment to sensory pleasures, Kaṅkaṇa;
Realizer of appearance and existence as illusions, Kambala;
Cakrasaṃvara by nature, Ḍeṅgipa—
Lords of accomplishment, I pray to you all!
Attainer of the supreme mahāmudrā, Śāntipa;
Realizer of the unreality of all things, Taṅtepa,
Attainer of the supreme siddhi, glorious Kukkurīpa;
Master of Guhyasamāja, Kucipa;
Realizer of multiplicity as one taste, Dharmapa—
Herukas, I pray to you all!
Realizer of the lack of perceiver, perception, and perceived, Mahipa;
Holder of an inexhaustible treasure of desirables, Aciṅtapa;
Bodhicitta, the nature of deathless nectar, Babhahi;
Purifier of the stains of impure delusion, Nalina;
Crown ornament of scholars, glorious Śāntideva—
Sovereigns of siddhis, I pray to you all!
Chief of siddhas, venerable Indrabhūti;
Realizer of the unchanging natural state, Mekopa;
Traverser of the path of innate great bliss, Koṭālipa;
Master of the avadhūtī, venerable Kaṁparipa;
Attainer of the siddhi of unity, Jālandhara—
Mighty lords of siddhis, I pray to you all!
You whose prāṇa and mind entered the central channel, Rāhula;
You who manifested the wisdom of realization, Dharmapa;
Indivisibility of basic space and awareness, Guru Dhokaripa;
Ripener of the wondrous fruition of the two kāyas, Medinī;
Embraced by the noble ones, Guru Paṅkaja;
Vajra holders, I pray to you all!
Attainer of the supreme siddhi, glorious Ghaṇṭāpa;
Hevajra in person, Guru Jogipa;
Attainer of the supreme mahāmudrā, Celuki;
Realizer of emptiness and sound inseparable, Godhuri;
Attainer of the supreme siddhi through the two-stage path, Luñcaka—
Kings of siddhas, I pray to you all!
Realizer of the luminous unity, Naguṇa;
Conqueror of the enemy, dualism, venerable Jayānanda;
Realizer of indivisible emptiness, Pacari;
Manifester of the great-bliss fruition, Campaka;
Obtainer of the state of unity, Bhikṣana—
Masters of supreme siddhi, I pray to you all!
Filled with undefiled bliss, Medhili;
Purifier of delusion’s stains, Guru Kumbhakāripa;
Extracter of the vajra great-bliss essence, Cārpaṭi;
Realizer of conditioning’s meaning, venerable Maṇibhadrā;
Embodying the symbols of simplicity, Mekhalā—
Vajra holders, I pray to you all!
Unity of basic space and awareness, venerable Kanakhalā;
Appearances of objects self-liberated, Kalakala;
Realizer of the unreality of all things, Kaṇtāli;
Appearances and mind inseparable, Dahuli;
Accomplisher of the supreme siddhi of Guhyasamāja, Udhili—
Accomplished victorious ones, I pray to you all!
Magnificent joy, glorious Kapālapa;
Thoughts liberated in their natural place, Kirapāla;
Mighty lake-born one, Guru Sakara;
Unity of appearance and emptiness, venerable Sarvabhakṣa;
Self-liberator of clinging to reality, Nāgabodhi—
Supreme masters, I pray to you all!
Attainer of the supreme siddhi, venerable Dārika;
Perfecter of the two-stage path, Guru Puttali;
Purifier of the discards of the path of seeing, glorious Upanaha;
Self-liberated yogi, Kokilapa;
The six sense doors self-liberated, Guru Anaṅga—
Siddhas of unity, I pray to you all!
Vajra queen, Lakṣmīṅkarā;
Realizer of the four joys, Guru Samudra;
Extracter of the vajra great-bliss essence, Vyālipa—
Mighty Ones of Khecarī, I pray to you all!
By the power and grace of praying in this way,
May I, in all my lives, be taken in and embraced
By the accomplished vidyādharas and the vajra queens,
And, through the two-stage path, in this very life
May I accomplish the supreme siddhi without difficulty!