The Aspiration of the Vajradhātu Maṇḍala
Buddhas and bodhisattva heirs of the ten directions and four times,
Gurus, devas, ḍākinīs and the hosts of dharmapālas who guard the teachings—
All of you without exception, as numerous as atoms in the universe, please come now
Into the space before me, and take your seats on these cushions of lotus and moon.
I pay homage with devotion in body, speech and mind.
I present outer, inner and secret offerings and the gift of suchness.
In the presence of the supreme support, the sugatas,
I feel remorse for all my accumulated negative actions of the past,
And with regret I confess my present non-virtues:
From now on, I vow to turn away from them all.
I rejoice in all accumulations of virtue and merit.
I beseech all the victorious ones not to pass beyond sorrow,
But to turn the wheel of the three piṭakas and of the unsurpassed Dharma.
I dedicate all accumulations of virtue, without exception, to the minds of beings:
May they all reach the ground of unsurpassable liberation!
Buddhas and your bodhisattva heirs, turn your attention towards me!
May this excellent aspiration that I am now making,
Emulate the prayers
Of the victorious Samantabhadra with his bodhisattva heirs,
And noble Mañjughoṣa's omniscient wisdom.
May the precious gurus, the glory of the teachings,
Pervade everywhere like space itself,
And illuminate everything like the sun and moon.
May they always be with us, steadfast like mountains.
May the precious saṅgha, the bedrock of the teachings,
Remain in harmony, maintain pure discipline and be rich in the three higher trainings.
May the practitioners of the Secret Mantrayāna, the heart of the teachings,
Keep their samaya commitments and perfect the generation and completion stages.
For the king who protects the Dharma, the benefactor of the teachings,
May his kingdom flourish and may he be of benefit to the Dharma.
May those who serve the teachings, warriors and ministers,
Possess increasing skills and supreme intelligence.
May the wealthy householders who sustain the teachings
Be prosperous and always free from harm.
May all Buddhist nations where there is faith in the teachings
Enjoy happiness and well-being, with all obstacles pacified.
And for me, this yogi on the path,
May my samaya never decline and my wishes be fulfilled.
May whoever makes a connection with me, through positive or negative karma,
Always be blessed by the buddhas' care,
And may all beings cross the gate of the supreme vehicle,
And reach Samantabhadra's great kingdom.