Granting the Wish for Immortality A Prayer for the Long Life of Dzarong Trulshik Rinpoche, the Representative of Guru Rinpoche
Primordial buddha Samantabhadra, Buddha Śākyamuni,
Padmākara, embodiment of enlightened power and strength,
Vajrakumāra, Ārya Tārā and the like—
Peaceful and wrathful gurus, yidams and ḍākinīs, grant us virtue and goodness, here and now!
Through the blessings of Mañjuśrī, lord of speech,
You raise the victory banner of the Dharma of scripture and realization
In all directions, for you are endowed with a wisdom so profound—
To the most glorious and incomparable guru, we pray!
Magical emanation of Vairocana, in this final age,
Once again you assume the form of an abbot holding monastic vows,
Venerable lord and defender of the teaching and beings,
May your life remain secure for a hundred aeons!
Holder of the individual liberation (pratimokṣa), where the Teachings and the Teacher become one,
Crown jewel of infinite learning, discipline and diligence,
You bring ever greater benefit and happiness to countless wandering beings,
May your life remain secure for a hundred aeons!
The vast, deep ocean of your wisdom mind
Is filled with the jewels—your noble qualities of learning and holiness,
Humble, peaceful and disciplined, you follow the lifestyle of the great Kadampas,
May your life remain secure for a hundred aeons!
The great ocean of Tibet’s non-sectarian teachings of the Buddha,
Is perfectly embraced within the expanse of your understanding,
You who appear as a Vajra-holder with the three vows,
May your life remain secure for a hundred aeons!
And especially for the great tradition of the Early Translation vehicle,
And the essence of its teachings— kama and terma combined,
Never to decline but flourish in all directions and for all time,
May your life remain secure for a hundred aeons!
So that the tradition of teaching and practice of the great works of Longchenpa, one of the ‘Three Mañjuśrīs’ of Tibet—
The Trilogy of Being at Ease, the Great Treasuries and so on,
Will spread far and wide, and remain long into the future,
May your life remain secure for a hundred aeons!
Your sacred aspirations are enacted in everything you do,
And so, for the teachings of the Buddha to flourish for ages to come,
And especially the profound and secret uncommon teachings of the Ancient Translations,
May your life remain secure for a hundred aeons!
By the power of the dharmadhātu, utterly pure, and through the blessings of the Buddha, Dharma and Saṅgha,
By the might and strength of all the Dharma guardians and their retinues,
And by the power of the truth of our one-pointed faith and samaya pledge,
May this prayer be spontaneously fulfilled, just as we aspire!