Condensed Daily Practice of The Heart-Essence of the Sublime Lady of Immortality Preliminaries Main Practice Feast Offering 3 Conclusion
Oṃ svasti!
Namo! Sublime Lady, embodiment of all sources of refuge,
Until I attain awakening I take refuge in you.
In order to liberate all wandering beings from suffering,
By attaining immortality, I arouse bodhicitta.
Aḥ! All phenomena are empty, beyond all concepts.
Union 1 is the all-illuminating compassion.
Through its power, awareness arises as the white syllable tāṃ .
From tāṃ , light emanates and accomplishes the two aims. 2
As the light gathers back, instantaneously
I transform into Cintāmaṇicakrā, Wish-Fulfilling Wheel,
Pristine, beautiful and lustrous like the autumn moon.
Her right hand displays the mudrā of supreme generosity,
Her left hand, extended in the mudrā of granting protection,
Holds an utpala flower on which rests a vase of longevity.
Peaceful, smiling, with seven eyes of wisdom,
She is adorned with silks and jewelled ornaments and
Seated cross-legged in vajra posture
On a lotus and moon-disc seat.
Her natural radiance is the supreme skilful means, Narteśvara, Lord of Dance,
Holding a lotus flower and a vase of longevity and embracing her.
From the syllables of the three vajras at the three places
Light shoots forth and invites the jñānasattvas.
Vajra-samājaḥ |
jaḥ hūṃ baṃ hoḥ — they merge indivisibly.
In her heart upon a lotus and moon-disc seat resides Amitāyus, Buddha of Boundless Life.
In his heart within a sun and moon chest,
Is the syllable tāṃ encircled by the mantra garland.
From it, light streams out filled with
Infinite cloud-like noble Vijayā goddesses, like dust in sunbeams.
They draw in all the vital essence
Of the animate and inanimate universe,
In the form of the luminous elixir of immortality.
It absorbs into me and accomplishes the immortal body.
oṃ tāre tuttāre ture svāhā |
oṃ tāre tuttāre ture hrīḥ bhrūṃ vajra-jñānāyuṣe svāhā |
raṃ yaṃ khaṃ | oṃ hūṃ trāṃ hrīḥ āḥ ha ho hrīḥ |
Hrīḥ! From the infinite three-kāya buddha-fields,
Sublime Mother, who liberates beings from saṃsāra,
Surrounded by an ocean of deities of the three roots and dharmapālas,
Approach—we invite you to this feast gathering.
sarva-samājaḥ jaḥ |
Oṃ āḥ hūṃ hoḥ! Within the feast receptacle—the naturally-arisen bhāṇḍa ,
The kapāla —the natural condition of the channels and cakras,
Are arranged bodhicitta—food, drink, and the essences of existence—
And the feast bali —self-illuminating awareness.
Please accept these outer, inner, secret and unsurpassed
Feast offerings.
We practitioners and those around us
Confess all breakages of samaya related to the three secrets.
Liberate all obstacles—the four māras—into the expanse of reality!
Grant us the empowerment of longevity of the awakened body, speech and mind!
samaya-pañca-kāma-mahā-sukha-jñāna-dhātu-gaṇcakra-pūjā hoḥ |
Hrīḥ pheṃ! Hosts of ḍākas, ḍākinīs and kṣetrapālas,
Accept this remainder bali,
Dispel all obstacles, increase our life and vitality,
And swiftly carry out the four activities!
ucchiṣṭa-gaṇacakra-pūjā hoḥ |
The animate and inanimate universe dissolves into light and becomes one with me.
I rest within simplicity, free from all concepts and elaborations.
I reawaken as the expression of the body, speech and mind of the Sublime Lady
Whose essence is innate immortality.
Through this merit, may I complete the two accumulations,
And swiftly reach the supreme accomplishment of Noble Tārā.
May all beings conquer the two obscurations
And reach the stages of the immortal vidyādharas.
Supreme, victorious consort of Amitāyus,
Supreme bestower of immortality,
Supreme amongst all exalted deities, Bhagavatī,
Wish-fulfilling Wheel, let everything be auspicious!