A Prayer to the Precious Guru from Uḍḍiyāna That Spontaneously Fulfils All Wishes
Emaho!
On the Glorious Mountain in the southwest, the supreme pure realm,
You are Guru Padmākara, embodiment of all the Victors.
Please heed my prayers and look kindly on the beings
Of this degenerate age, this darkest of times!
Upon the sun, moon, and lotus seat at my crown
You are my root teacher, Precious Guru of Uḍḍiyāna,
Surrounded by the masters of the oral lineages.
To you I pray: purify my evil karma!
Grant your blessing, so all my wishes be spontaneously fulfilled!
In the eastern palace of Beautiful to Behold,
You are the Medicine Buddha, Precious Guru of Uḍḍiyāna,
Surrounded by the Eight Lordly Physicians with their retinues of vidyādharas.
To you I pray: pacify every type of illness!
Grant your blessing, so all my wishes be spontaneously fulfilled!
In the palace of Wisdom Fire Ablaze,
You are the Most Supreme Heruka, Precious Guru of Uḍḍiyāna,
Surrounded by fierce male and female deities.
To you I pray: bestow the siddhis!
Grant your blessing, so all my wishes be spontaneously fulfilled!
In the palace of fivefold light, celestial and pure,
You are the Lord of Ḍākinīs, Precious Guru of Uḍḍiyāna,
Surrounded by ḍākinīs of wisdom and the world.
To you I pray: dispel all obstacles, outer and inner!
Grant your blessing, so all my wishes be spontaneously fulfilled!
On a throne of evil foes and forces suppressed,
You are the Lord of Protectors, Precious Guru of Uḍḍiyāna,
Surrounded by dharma protectors, wisdom and worldly.
To you I pray: put a halt to the troubles and strife of this age!
Grant your blessing, so all my wishes be spontaneously fulfilled!
In the palace of Ever-Precious Treasure,
You are the Fount of Siddhi, Precious Guru of Uḍḍiyāna,
Surrounded by wealth deities and treasure lords.
To you I pray: shower down a rain of siddhis!
Grant your blessing, so all my wishes be spontaneously fulfilled!
In the realm of Tibet, the Land of Snows,
You are the Binder of Demons, Precious Guru of Uḍḍiyāna,
Surrounded by eight commanded ones and lords of the earth.
To you I pray: repel the armies at our borders!
Grant your blessing, so all my wishes be spontaneously fulfilled!
In Great Bliss palace, Blazing Lotus Light,
You are Lord Amitābha, Precious Guru of Uḍḍiyāna,
Surrounded by Buddhas and their heirs throughout space.
To you I pray: lead us to the realm of Lotus Light!
Grant your blessing, so all my wishes be spontaneously fulfilled!
oṃ āḥ hūṃ vajra guru padma siddhi hūṃ
Avert the magic of the sun, moon, planets and stars above!
Avert malevolent earth guardians, nāgas, and nyen below!
Avert harm from the tsen and mamo s in between!
Banish all types of illness associated with the four elements!
Avert all armies from every direction of the compass—māraya bhyo bhyo! Avert! Avert!