A Ritual of Blessing and Empowerment for the Female Practice, from the Heart Essence of the Vast Expanse
On a momentous occasion when the ḍākinīs gather,
Upon one of the two types of coloured maṇḍala, or a heap, 1
Fill an authentic skull-cup with ambrosia
And sprinkle it with amṛta and the twenty-five substances.
On a mirror coated with sindūra
Draw the seed syllables of the five female buddhas;
Place a bell on top and cover it with a canopy.
Elegantly arrange the regular offerings and feast-offering tormas.
Carry out the practice of the main text and recite the mantra.
Offer a feast and cast the flower of awareness.
Cleanse the students and expel obstructive forces.
Omniscient one, embodiment of primordial wisdom, 2
Who thoroughly purifies the wheel of existence—
Lord, with your kindness, grant me this precious treasure
Of which you have spoken today. 3
Have the students repeat this three times, then relate the history.
Transmit the four immeasurables, refuge and mind set upon awakening.
Then, for the actual empowerment:
Apply yourself to the invocation of the wisdom deities.
The students’ consciousness transforms into a raṃ syllable,
From which there blazes a fire that burns the ripened aggregates.
Out of empty form, which has the character of light,
Arises the ḍākinī Queen of Great Bliss.
She has one face and two hands; her body is red in colour.
She is naked, standing in the posture of equanimity, yet ready to act.
Passionate and smiling,
She holds in her right hand a small skull-drum,
Which she plays at the level of her ear.
In her left hand she holds a hooked knife, the handle
Resting on her hip; her bearing is imposing and graceful.
Her bhaga is expanded and her breasts swell.
She is adorned with jewels and youthful ornaments
And wears a garland of white lotus flowers.
The six bone ornaments adorn her body,
Her black, glistening hair is plaited,
And her jewelled diadem shines majestically.
Her central eye gazes into all-encompassing space.
Her sambhogakāya eye tames beings.
Her nirmāṇakāya eye summons the three realms.
In her body the maṇḍalas of all the classes of tantra are perfectly complete.
She is surrounded by a vast assembly of hundreds of thousands of ḍākinīs.
In her heart is Lady Ārya Tārā,
Blue-green in colour, with one face and two hands.
In her heart is the wisdom deity Vārāhī;
Shiny black in colour and holding a hooked knife and skull-cup.
There are the three nested beings 4 and your five places
Are marked by the five implements and the five seed syllables.
From them, light radiates out
To The Unsurpassed, 5 the celestial realms,
The Land of Turquoise Leaves and the Realm of Lotus Light,
Inviting the wisdom deities from their homes.
They dissolve into you, becoming inseparable.
Hūṃ! In the country known as India
Lies the supreme sacred land of Uḍḍiyāna,
As well as Dhumathala, its citadel of ḍākinīs,
And also Cāmaradvīpa, supreme isle of isles.
In reality they are the Unsurpassed, the pure realm of great bliss,
Yet they appear as emanated celestial realms.
From all those places where you joyfully reside,
Great dharmakāya mother Tsogyal,
Together with your retinue of hundreds of thousands of ḍākinīs,
Come! Inspire me with your blessings—
Shower down your blessings on this supreme place!
Grant me, a supreme practitioner, the four empowerments!
Dispel obstructing forces, corrupting influences and hindrances!
Grant me the supreme and ordinary accomplishments!
oṃ padmo-yoginī tāre tuttāre ture jñāna-vārāhī pheṃ pheṃ
tiṣṭha vajra
Hoḥ. The unsurpassable samayas of Secret Mantra
Of the naturally arisen, spontaneously present vase empowerment,
The sacred empowerment of the three secrets of all the buddhas—
I bestow upon you!
oṃ padmo-yoginī tāre tuttāre ture jñāna-vārāhī kalaśābhiṣiñca hūṃ
Hoḥ. The samaya of bodhicitta
Dissolves into the circle of syllables in the channels and elements.
Everything arises from the inexpressible state.
May you obtain the speech empowerment of sound-emptiness.
bodhicittābhiṣiñca hūṃ
Hoḥ. The primordial wisdom in which all qualities are complete
Depends entirely on the four joys.
The samaya in which skilful means and insight are united,
The great mudrā—you should enjoy.
jaḥ hūṃ baṃ hoḥ
a ho mahāsukhaḥ
Hoḥ. Sound is audible, yet empty.
Likewise, mind is devoid of essence.
In the essenceless natural state
Abandon the ‘looked at’ and perfectly look.
a a
As samaya commitments for having received the four empowerments,
I pledge never to abandon the vajra master,
To observe continually the twenty-fifth day of the lunar calendar, 7
To honour and respect young women,
And always to cultivate twofold bodhicitta.
Whatever the guru, chief of the maṇḍala, commands,
I shall carry out—each and every instruction.