The Excellent Path of Supreme Great Bliss A Prayer for Calling the Guru from Afar
Guru, please think of me, know me, and bless me!
Within the essence, dharmakāya, all-pervasive as the sky,
The nature, unlimited sambhogakāya, shines like the sun’s luminous rays,
And compassion, like a rainbow, arises as nirmāṇakāya.
To awaken in the depths of my heart the wisdom realization of these three kāyas, inseparable –
Vajra Guru, essence of the Buddha, please bless me!
So that I may realize the original ground, the Great Perfection free from eight limitations, 1
Through the direct path on which the veils of view and meditation are removed,
And, joining with the fruition in which effort and aspiration are no more,
Be liberated in the original dharmakāya, where ground and result have always been indivisible –
Vajra Guru, essence of the Buddha, please bless me!
So that I do not squander the excellent support
Of this precious human rebirth, found only once in hundreds of lifetimes,
But, accompanied by guides who have mastered the profound instructions for life, death and the bardo,
Achieve the fullness of realization, the perfection of the three kāyas’ own dynamic energy –
Vajra Guru, essence of the Buddha, please bless me!
So that I may understand the faults of this momentary, impermanent universe and all it contains,
And arrive right now, immediately and effortlessly,
At a state of uncompounded, spontaneously present great bliss,
Which is primordial – never having arisen, developed, or changed in any way –
Vajra Guru, essence of the Buddha, please bless me!
So that I may enjoy the ambrosia of ripening empowerments and liberating instructions
Of Ati and Yangti, the culmination of the nine vehicles of sublime Dharma,
Which protects from saṃsāra’s terrifying ravines,
And save myself immediately from sinking deeper into saṃsāra’s mire –
Vajra Guru, essence of the Buddha, please bless me!
The root of saṃsāra’s vicious circle of confusion – good or bad, happy or painful –
Lies in the seeds of twofold ignorance: connate and conceptual.
So that I may banish this ignorance, the heart’s darkness, right in its own place
With the lamp of self-emergent awareness, the wisdom that realizes the absence of self,
Vajra Guru, essence of the Buddha, please bless me!
Awareness, ever free, is the ultimate refuge, the fundamental nature of reality,
While uncertain or temporary refuges fail to bring about the absolute fruition.
So that I may realize this supreme refuge, the vajra-mind, perfectly accomplished,
Beyond any notion of subject, object or action of taking refuge –
Vajra Guru, essence of the Buddha, please bless me!
So that I may leave behind attachment to good intentions produced by wishful thinking,
Caught in the dualities of self and other, saṃsāra and nirvāṇa, and hope and fear,
And remain instead in the certainty that never strays
From the innate nature of mind – boundless, ultimate, and awakened –
Vajra Guru, essence of the Buddha, please bless me!
The thick darkness of the two obscurations, difficult to discern, has been present throughout beginningless time,
But so that the radiant sun of luminous wisdom-awareness
May clear defiled habits, transgressions, and downfalls into their natural purity,
And I may be established as the stainless conch-white Lord Protector 2 –
Vajra Guru, essence of the Buddha, please bless me!
So that I may perfect the great accumulation – realizing the fundamental nature of reality to be my own nature –
And abide in the infinitely uniform expanse of Samantabhadra’s wisdom mind, with its six special features of awakening, 3
Through the vehicle of Ati, which is effortless and uncomplicated,
May I seize the kingdom of dharmakāya in this present lifetime:
Vajra Guru, essence of the Buddha, please bless me!
So that I may behold the true master – awareness-emptiness – in the centre of my heart
Through the immediate cause of praying intensely with genuine devotion,
And realize the great empowerment of awareness’s dynamic energy,
May the wisdom transmission of ultimate indication be transferred this very instant!
Vajra Guru, essence of the Buddha, please bless me!
Although accumulation and purification are pure in themselves, may gathering merit never cease.
Although self and other are non-dual, may generating bodhichitta never stop.
Although the mind is recognized to be the guru, may heartfelt practice never end.
Although the deities’ wisdom forms are never separate, may we strive in the two stages of the path. 4
Vajra Guru, essence of the Buddha, please bless me!
In short, in caves and huts in isolated mountain retreats,
Through the path of enlightenment without meditation, knowing the one crucial point that liberates all,
And supported by the truly royal yogic lifestyle of renouncing pointless activity,
May I be able to erase the dividing line between saṃsāra and nirvāṇa – for this alone I pray!
Vajra Guru, essence of the Buddha, please bless me!
Having perfected ourselves, in the space of great simplicity, the unborn dharmakāya,
Endless wisdom embodiments will appear to serve others through noble enlightened activity.
So that I may follow this path actualized by the buddhas and their sublime heirs,
And fulfil my aspiration to empty the three realms of saṃsāra from their very depths,
Vajra Guru, essence of the Buddha, please bless me!