Prayer to the Lineage of Lumorab
Namo Guru!
Bodhicitta, summit of ultimate secrecy,
Expression of the equal unity of existence and peace,
Crowning ornament of the accomplished family, beyond all counting,
Glorious protector, Lord Trulshik Lingpa, 1 think of me!
You entered the ocean of bodhisattva conduct,
The remedy that benefits the teachings and brings comfort to beings,
And you reached the wisdom expanse of all the Victors.
Glorious sovereign, Sönam Thayé, 2 think of me!
With the great and glorious dawning of your tremendous love
For the chariot of sūtra and mantra of the Lord Vairocana,
You turn the Ati-wheel of the Triple Gem.
Awareness-holder, Lord Kusum Lingpa, 3 think of me!
A buddha yourself, you took birth as a bodhisattva,
Holder of the secret treasury of the Ngagyur 4 teachings.
Your life of learning and accomplishment is beyond imagination.
Supreme Refuge, Lord Pema Wangchen, 5 think of me!
Compiling all the profound treasure-teachings,
You followed in the footsteps of previous sublime beings,
Always delighting in the two accomplishments.
Lord of Great Kindness, supreme and glorious, Raśmi Vajra, 6 think of me!
Supreme adornment, master of the Rime teachings,
You internalized the profound ripening and liberating instructions,
And all the clinging and effort of thinking dissolved into space.
Supreme Lord of Siddhas, Yeshé Dorjé, 7 think of me!
You perfected the wisdom of the ultimate lineage,
Inspiring others with your perfect conduct,
And reaching the very pinnacle of luminous appearances.
Lord Bodhisattva Chöying Dorjé, 8 think of me!
The blessings of Mañjuśrī entered your heart,
Causing an ocean of pristine wisdom to pour forth.
Heruka, sporting in self-liberation,
Learned adept, Lord Pendé Özer, 9 think of me!
Compassionate bearer of the white lotus,
Taking the form of an accomplished secret preceptor,
You hold the awareness of yogic discipline.
Protector of beings, Lord Döndrup Wangyal, 10 think of me!
Powerful vajra-mace holder,
Before our faithful countenance you are a virtuous friend
Who teaches the essential pith of all philosophies.
Dharma Lord, Khyentsé Norbu, 11 think of me!
Supreme youth, embodying the dance of the five topknots, 12
You clarify the Victor’s teachings with explanation and debate.
Treasury of speech, fearless leader,
Great Bodhisattva, Chökyi Drakpa, 13 think of me!
Lady Tsogyal, in the form of a disciple
You arrived for all to see. Yoginī,
Treasury of blessings, wisdom, love, and power,
Samantabhadrī, Chökyi Drolma, 14 think of me!
At the time of the Great Tertön Arpa,
You were our supreme guide, loving lord.
Glorious sovereign, knower of the two traditions,
Lord of Speech, Lord Tendzin Chöjé, 15 think of me!
In the noble land of India, you were the Mahāsiddha Saraha,
And in Tibet, the Lotsawa Marpa.
You demonstrated the courageous discipline of a madman.
Mahāsiddha Protector Pema Namgyal, 16 think of me!
White lotus protector, our glorious guide,
Single essence of all the Victors,
Sovereign of wisdom, love, and power
Jamyang Chökyi Drakpa, 17 think of me!
Although you are old and getting on in years,
Your behaviour is like that of a child,
And you do not listen to anyone.
Crazy Yogi Kunzang Wangyal, 18 think of me!
Protector, our destined deity, come!
Lords of accomplishment, great masters and disciples,
By the power of my prayers, sincere and earnest,
Let fall the rain of blessings of wisdom!
Free from the quagmire of positive and negative perception,
May I attain the yogic discipline of the great Noble Ones
And the unfailing realization and conduct of the Kadampas.
May I abandon the eight superficial ways of the world
And make my mind wealthy with the noblest of riches!
May I become like you, sublime and glorious protectors,
You who are rid of the clinging to phenomena,
You, of the supreme liberation—awareness, free from fixation,
You, who have genuinely seen the illumination of appearance and existence!
Bestow the supreme accomplishments, in this very life!
In all our lifetimes, may we never be separated
From you—sublime and perfect, immaculate beings!
Please enjoy the riches of this amṛta,
And then, having attained complete awakening together,
May we liberate infinite beings!