A Prayer of Devotion, to Make the Tears Fall
Emaho!
You are the treasure of all the buddhas’ compassion, past, present and future,
You are our greatest guide, who liberates all three realms,
You are the one and only friend of every living being in Tibet,
Your kindness is beyond compare, Orgyen Chenpo.
I offer you my body, my possessions, my heart and soul,
As I pray to you, without a trace of deceit or pretence.
From beginningless time in saṃsāra till now,
Dominated by ignorance, karma and destructive emotions,
I have wandered through the three worlds and six realms of beings,
Bound by the ropes of the three kinds of suffering—
Quickly, with all your compassion, free me, O Guru, O lord.
From this moment on, till I reach enlightenment,
In happiness or sorrow, comfort or danger, good or bad, whatever may occur,
Jetsün Chenpo, Lotus-born—know me, care for me!
When someone prays to you with all their heart,
Your compassion flows unceasing: this is your promise,
And since your words liberate upon hearing, then grant
Us everything you have pledged, here and now, I pray, so that I may see it with my very eyes!
Above all, when this life comes to an end,
When the moment arrives for mind and body to part,
When I face the agony and suffering of birth, death and the bardo in between,
Then protect me from the bardo’s horrifying abyss,
And hold me back from the three lower realms.
Let whatever I perceive transform into your pure land, the Copper Coloured Mountain of Glory,
And right there, in the sublime three-kāya palace of great bliss,
As I merge, Lord, one with your wisdom mind,
Lead me, Mahā Guru—be my guide.
You who are all sources of refuge, Orgyen Chenpo, care for me.
You who are all buddhas, Orgyen Chenpo, care for me.
You who are all Dharma, Orgyen Chenpo, care for me.
You who are all the Saṅgha, Orgyen Chenpo, care for me.
You who are all gurus, devas and ḍākinīs, Orgyen Chenpo, care for me.
As we reach now the end of this degenerate dark age,
We have no time to practise the sacred Dharma correctly.
When we are oppressed by frost, hail, flood and drought, by sickness, epidemic and famine,
By violence and the decadence and decay of our time,
When the elements are plunged into chaos, the tendrel for the planet and its inhabitants go wrong,
And when beings in Tibet endure the harshest of suffering,
Then, with all of your compassion, Jetsün Guru,
Immediately, fling open the door to a new kind of golden age,
And ultimately, I pray, within the dharmakāya’s palace of clear light
May all living beings of the three worlds find relief,
So that saṃsāra is emptied, from its very depths!