Wisdom Essence of the Mighty One A Daily Practice of Hayagrīva's Play of the Three Realms, from the Ocean of Gathered Teachings of the Awesome Ones Lineage Prayer 2 Prayer in Eight Branches The Main Part: Visualizing the Generation Phase 2. The Stages of Recitation 3. Dissolution and Re-Emergence of the Deities’ Appearance The Conclusion: Dedication and Aspiration
Namo guru padma-krodha hayagrīvāya! 1
The blessing of the wisdom mind of Padma Heruka
Passed from Indradevī and Nāgārjuna,
Down to Padmākara:
Masters of the lineage of wisdom speech,
Of the past, present and future―to you I pray!
To the Lotus-born Guru of Uḍḍiyāna, I pray!
Hoḥ. I prostrate to the vajra master,
Glorious embodiment of the buddhas of past, present and future!
With a mind free from all duality,
I take refuge in the Three Jewels, the objects of reliance!
I request that you accept these pure offerings,
Both actual and envisioned.
My faults, the hindrances that cut the flow of accomplishments, 3
I confess without exception.
In all those actions throughout the ten directions done without attachment
And free from concepts of subject, object and action, I rejoice!
I awaken the perfect mind set upon awakening,
Pure and untainted by the four extremes.
To the bliss-gone ones, 4 mighty lords and sentient beings.
I offer my body for the threefold purpose.
Gathering the merits accumulated throughout all my lives,
I dedicate them to supreme enlightenment!
Hūṃ. Naturally-arisen awareness, suchness devoid of self—
Its display is all-illuminating, great compassion, whose radiance is
The causal awareness—hūṃ. It purifies the world and beings
And then becomes a five-pronged vajra.
The vajra instantly transforms into the causal heruka,
Who arises in the sky of the mother—the inexpressible fivefold expanse.
In the centre of the magnificent palace of the Unsurpassed 5 realm ‘Display of the Great Secret’, 6
Is the single door, a red crescent. In its centre are the syllables
Paṃ, from which emanates a lotus; maṃ, from which emanates a sun-disk seat;
And ru and nā, from which emanate a nāga and rākṣasa intertwined. Upon them:
Hūṃ. The naturally-arisen causal herukas 7
Descend from the space of primordial wisdom to take their seats.
With the sound of the great bliss of union,
Offerings are made to the nobles ones and others’ benefit accomplished.
They transform into the resultant herukas
Of the Awesome One Hayagrīva's play.
Hayagrīva's body is the colour of the blazing inferno at the end of time.
He has five heads and sixteen arms.
He is confident, has garuḍa wings, and his eight legs are wide apart.
The tips of his wings are ornamented with garuḍas, suns and moons.
He is adorned with the glorious attributes of the charnel ground.
He has five heads, one in the centre and the others gazing to the east, south, west and north.
With a mere glance he terrifies the gandharvas, lords of death, nāga kings,
Yakṣas and evil spirits.
His right head is blue, the left yellow and the others red.
His upper head ferociously tames the four māras.
All five heads are topped by a neighing green horse head
And the buddhas of the five families. The maṇḍalas of the three seats are perfectly complete. 8
His eight right hands hold
A vajra, a khaṭvāṅga, a bell,
An iron hook, a snake lasso, a cakra, 9
A sword and a vajra chain.
His eight left hands hold a skull cup filled with blood, a lotus, a heart,
A stick, a crossed vajra, a blazing club
And a trident. He dispatches multi-coloured garuḍas.
His eight feet trample upon the eight nāgas and male and female spirits.
His great consort Brilliant Lotus is blue in colour.
Her right hand holds a wish-fulfilling jewel and embraces him,
And her left hand clasps a jewelled casket.
Body, speech and mind are consecrated
And you are empowered with the five wisdoms.
oṃ āḥ hūṃ | hrīḥ oṃ svā hūṃ āḥ
In Hayagrīva's heart is the mother of all the victorious ones,
Brilliant Lotus, her form semi-wrathful.
She has no implements but appears as if holding them.
In her heart is a jewel with eight sides.
Upon it is a sun-disk seat with the syllable hrīḥ, encircled by:
oṃ hulu hulu 10 phaṭ | e ārali hūṃ hrīḥ jaḥ
Hoḥ! Just like bubbles formed out of water,
The deities of the self-emanated maṇḍala,
Dissolve into wisdom’s basic space— vajra muḥ!
In post-meditation, everything arises as the deity’s illusory form.
vajra-rakṣa hūṃ
Hūṃ. With appearance, sound and awareness merging in the state of the three maṇḍalas,
The practice of merit and wisdom of the two phases is perfected. 11
I dedicate it toward the nirvāṇa of non-abiding wisdom—
May everyone attain the level of the Awesome One!