The Blazing Wrathful Guru, Hayagrīva and Garuḍa from the Heart-Essence of the Vast Expanse Request to Remain Paying Homage with the Flower of Awareness Offerings Praise The Visualization for the Mantra Recitation
Hrīḥ.  From emptiness endowed with the three aspects of liberation,
Toward all unrealized, deluded sentient beings,
Non-referential great compassion shines forth.
The extent of space is the realm of Lotus Light.
The immeasurable palace displays as a charnel ground,
Complete with all phenomena of total purity.
In its center, upon a lotus, sun-, and moon-disc,
Are the demons of dependent origination produced by ignorance,
In the form of twelve poisonous snakes coiled together; above that,
Self-awareness in the form of a red hrīḥ completely transforms
Into the fearsome Vajra Wrathful One Supreme In This World. 2
His mouth open with fangs bared, he stands with two legs spread apart.
His body is red, and he wears a deep blue gown,
A tiger skirt, bone ornaments, and a splendid garland of skulls.
He wears a crown of dried skulls, and amidst his long locks of hair
A green horse's head emerges upright, topped by a red-faced garuḍa.
His right hand holds a vajra and his left holds a flaming garuḍa.
All the pores of his body
Are also filled with garuḍas that radiate out like sparks,
Pulverizing all of the eight classes of harmful beings.
He shines splendidly amidst a mass of flames of primordial wisdom.
The demons of ignorance that arise from the eight consciousnesses,
In the form of the eight great nāgas, bow trembling before him.
At the crown, throat, and heart-center of the lord
Are the body of Mañjuśrī, the speech of the Lotus family,
And Yangdak, each holding a vajra and skull-cup filled with blood,
Marked respectively with the syllables of body, speech, and mind.
Light rays radiate from them, the mudrā of Dharma,
And the great mudrā of primordial wisdom, the apparent deities,
Are drawn in by the four mudrās of activity,
Dissolving inseparably into me, the mudrā of samaya.
e hye hi bhagavān mahā kāruṇika dṛśya hoḥ
Hūṃ. The hook of compassion summons the deities from the dharmadhātu.
The noose of loving-kindness draws them into the support, blended in a single taste.
The chains of joy bind them with the equality of method and wisdom.
The bell of equanimity utterly stabilizes them.
jaḥ hūṃ baṃ hoḥ | vajra tiṣṭha
Hūṃ. With the great mudrās of body, speech, and mind
I join into union with suchness.
Paying homage through the encounter with the deity and the view,
I bow to the expanse that is free from accepting or rejecting.
namo nama hoḥ
Hūṃ. The offerings of the six sensory objects
Are the display of the equality of objects and great bliss.
By offering medicine, torma, rakta, bodhicitta,
And union and liberation, I present the feast-offering.
rūpa śabda gandha rāsa sparśa dharmadhātu mahā pañca rakta baliṅta bodhicitta gaṇacakra pūja hoḥ
Hūṃ. The body of the wrathful guru is captivating, heroic, and fearsome.
His speech, the display of Hayagrīva, is menacing laughter, stern and ferocious.
His mind of the garuḍa of primordial wisdom is compassionate, awesome, and peaceful.
To the deity who tames all negative forces, I offer homage and praise.
At my heart-center, surrounding a hūṃ-syllable upon a sun-disc,
The mantra-chain rotates like a firebrand,
Emitting rays of light like sparks of fire,
And emanating garuḍas like sparks, which burn all negative forces,
And resounding with the neighing cry of the horse, which shakes the entire universe.
Purifying the world and its inhabitants, the light rays dissolve into me,
Appearing as the deity in the state of the Great Mudrā.
oṃ āh hūṃ mahā guru artsik nirtsik hrīḥ hūṃ trom phaṭ