The Resounding Drum of Truth A Prayer and Aspiration
In you, all the ultimate qualities of knowledge and love are complete,
You who are exalted as the white lotus, protector of all living beings,
You who eradicate all misery through your discourse on dependent arising,
Perfect guide, Lion of the Śākyas, I bow down before you.
As in your glorious pronouncements, which foretold
How the Dharma would spread further to the north,
The Victor’s complete teaching reached the Land of Snows,
As an adornment for all the world, an excellence of fortune.
Yet now, through the power of unwholesome actions,
The teachings are in decline, and the outer and inner world
Are overwhelmed—beset by misery, on the verge of destruction.
It’s time to afford us protection in your great love and compassion!
Thus, let us all, divine and human, from the Land of Snows,
With our noble intentions and intense, fervent devotion,
Offer this pure golden crest, the splendid mark of a sugata,
The supreme receptacle of a sage, and fine saffron robes.
The vast twofold accumulation accruing from such offering,
Together with all the virtues related to the three times,
I hereby dedicate, so that the Victor’s teachings, source of benefit for all,
Including the devas, may never decline but endure long into the future.
For all embodied beings throughout the whole of space,
Especially the inhabitants of this continent of Jambudvīpa,
May loving and compassionate thoughts and deeds increase
And brutality, conflict and aggression cease for evermore.
Poverty, oppression, tyranny, and persecution,
Infectious disease and disasters caused by environmental harm—
May all such ills and adversity, both outer and inner, be pacified,
And may everyone enjoy the splendour of happiness and wellbeing for evermore.
Without sectarian bias but recognising the affinity of all followers
Of spiritual traditions, both Buddhist and non-Buddhist,
May I never lack the gem-like radiance of pure perception,
And earnestly strive to benefit living beings as a whole.
For the cool land of Tibet in particular, may the weakened teachings
Of the Victor be restored, never decline again but flourish and expand.
And with the newfound joy of spiritual and temporal autonomy,
May Tibetan’s immediate and long-term wishes swiftly be fulfilled.
May all those whose dedication is helping to raise the umbrella
Of dharmic and temporal activity throughout the Land of Snows
Maintain positive intentions, intelligence and steadfast determination,
And may all beings be cared for by Avalokiteśvara, Holder of the Lotus.
In the realm of Dharma, may the collections of non-dharmic, unwholesome deeds
Be pacified through Dharma, and all that is positive, both dharmically and temporally,
Be swiftly accomplished, according to the Dharma, by those with dharmic intention;
And may the truth of the Dharma definitively put an end to all that is non-dharmic.