Guru Yoga: The Complete Path of Sūtra And Tantra I. Four Common Outer Preliminaries II. Uncommon Inner Preliminaries 1. Taking Refuge and Generating Bodhicitta 3. Visualizing the Support for Accumulations in Guru Yoga 4. Seven Branches, The Essence of Accumulation and Purification 5. Meditation and Recitation of Vajrasattva 6. Offering the Maṇḍala (Optional) 7. Supplication 8. Practice of the Vase Empowerment 9. Practice of the Secret Empowerment 10. Practice of the Wisdom Empowerment 11. Practice of the Fourth Empowerment 12. Dedication, Aspiration and Auspicious Words
O alas! Precious Guru!
Now that I have gained the freedoms and advantages, so meaningful and difficult to obtain,
I shall spur myself on through recollection of death and impermanence,
Trust in cause and effect, adopt virtue and abandon harmful deeds.
In order to cross the terrifying ocean of saṃsāra,
I shall respectfully rely on Guru, who embodies the Three Jewels,
And set my mind upon supreme, unsurpassed enlightenment
So that I may free my fathers and mothers, who are as limitless as space, from both existence and quiescence.
I am in my ordinary form; above my head is the Lord of a hundred families,
Embodiment of the Three Roots, Lake-Born Vajradhara (Tsokye Dorjechang),
Indivisible from the master of the seven transmissions, Jamyang Khyentsé Wangpo—
Dance-like emanation and chariot for the entire teachings of the supreme vehicle.
He has the attire of Vajradhara and holds a vajra and bell and two lotus stalks.
Upon the right lotus is a sword, symbolizing fearlessness and supreme invincibility,
And upon the left is a volume of text to represent understanding of the Dharma.
He is the sovereign of a hundred families, a regent in guru's form,
And surrounded by infinite deities of the Three Roots and Victorious Ones.
To all sources of refuge throughout the whole of space and time,
I respectfully pay homage and make offerings; I confess my harmful actions and transgressions,
Rejoice in virtuous actions, pray that the Wheel of Dharma be turned,
Request you to remain for a hundred aeons, and dedicate all the virtues I have accumulated to sentient beings.
At the Guru's heart is Vajrasattva with consort,
From whom there flows a stream of nectar that purifies all negative karma and transgressions.
Oṃ āḥ hūṃ! Enjoyments in the pure lands of the Three Kāyas,
I offer to the Three Jewels and Three Roots
As outer, inner and secret offering clouds.
Accept it, and grant supreme and ordinary accomplishments, I pray!
oṃ āḥ hūṃ guru deva ḍākinī saparivāre ratna maṇḍala pūjā megha āḥ hūṃ
May the victory banner of the teachings of the Great Perfection—
True perception, the unchanging ultimate truth,
The tradition of Lord Padma, the supreme vehicle, stay aloft until the end of existence,
Remain for a hundred aeons and the enlightened activities spread!
In an instant, I appear in the form of noble Mañjughoṣa,
Holding a sword and volume of text and with saṃbhogakāya ornaments,
Orange in colour just like the sun at dawn.
At my heart, upon a lotus, is the vital syllable Dhīḥ.
As I focus my attention on the six syllables, they emanate and reabsorb [rays of light],
Dispelling the darkness of ignorance and causing wisdom’s radiance to expand.
The outer and inner world transforms into the pure land of Mañjuśrī and becomes one with deity and mantra.
oṃ arapacana dhīḥ
The wisdom fire at my own navel
Melts the syllable Haṃ at my crown, bringing an experiences of the four joys.
All aspects of the practice, deity and mantra dissolve into the space of Dharmatā,
The formless and genuine dharmakāya of Mañjuśrī—
Indivisible from my own true nature throughout beginningless time,
Where there is no division between meditation and post-meditation.
By the virtue of performing this practice,
May I become inseparable from the wisdom body of Mañjuśrī.
Then, by following the footsteps of the Victorious Ones and their heirs,
May all be auspicious so that we attain great sovereignty over the five kāyas!