The Single Oceanic Wisdom An Aspiration to Recognise the Bardos
Precious guru, embodiment of all the buddhas
Throughout the three times,
Turn your compassionate gaze towards me,
For I am without refuge and beset by deep-seated confusion.
Throughout time without beginning, I have been oppressed
By karma, destructive emotions and negative deeds,
I have harboured contempt for the guru and anger toward vajra siblings,
And as a result, have fallen into the abyss of destructive behaviour
And ruined all my vows and samaya commitments.
Now, filled with intense remorse, I openly confess all my misdeeds,
Without holding anything back.
Previously I didn’t heed your commands,
Nor did I purify destructive actions and downfalls.
Thus, when I depart this world,
I’ll surely be consumed in the unbearable fires of hell.
When that time comes, will you abandon me?
The ground of confusion is without beginning or end
As, from the neutral state of suchness,
The great demon of confusion, the source of all ills,
Arises in tandem with birth – the natural bardo of life.
Having won a life of leisure and fortune,
May I please the guru, and,
With wisdom arisen through study, contemplation and meditation,
Cultivate renunciation and bodhicitta,
And practice the supreme path of the six perfect actions.
In time, I’ll have to pass on
To the so-called bardo of dying.
Then may I not suffer
A painful, sudden or violent death,
But by unifying basic space and awareness,
Enter the sphere of luminosity
And be freed within the primordial ground.
However, should my familiarity prove weak,
May I close the eight gateways, open the aperture of brahma,
And, through familiarity with the instruction
On the ejection of consciousness riding the subtle wind,
Take birth in Khecara, celestial abode of the vidyādharas.
Yet if I do not actualise the bodhisattvas’
Transference of consciousness in this way,
The earth element will dissolve into itself, and I’ll be unable to rise;
The water element will dissolve into itself, and mucus will leak from my nose and saliva from my mouth;
The fire element will dissolve into itself, and my mouth and nose will dry up;
And, when the wind element dissolves, my breath will falter, and my limbs weaken,
My vision will cloud over, and my eyes roll upward.
[Without the support of the elements], the five subtle energies will dissipate
And cause visions of smoke, mirages, fireflies and a bright lamp to appear in turn.
When the five elements and fresh wisdom-bindus,
Which hitherto pervaded them,
Are about to separate
And the five sense consciousnesses dissolve into mind,
May I have no attachment to the appearances of this spent life
And recall the instructions of my Guru.
Next, as a result of the separation
Of the gross channels, drops and subtle winds,
The subtle experiences of appearance, increase and attainment will arise.
With the descent of the white element,
Thoughts related to desire,
Which arise from ‘strength of the heart’ (bliss), 1 will cease.
Simultaneously, consciousness will dissolve into ‘appearance’,
And as a vision like a moonlit autumn sky appears,
May I recognise this whiteness to be my nature.
Similarly, with the ascent of the red element,
Thoughts related to aggression, which arise from ‘dust’ (suffering), will cease.
As ‘appearance’ dissolves into ‘increase’
Producing a vision of redness like sunbeams streaming through a skylight,
May I recognise this to be my nature.
When the white and red drops 2 meet at my heart,
Thoughts related to confusion, which arise from ‘darkness’ (ignorance), will cease.
As 'increase’ dissolves into ‘near-attainment’,
A vision of blackness like a dark autumn sky will dawn,
And I will likely faint.
Then may I employ the lamp of recollection,
And, by merging near-attainment with natural luminosity,
Awaken within the primordial expanse.
If, as the force of my recollection is weak,
I lose conscious and experience an absence of thought,
May the ālaya (basis of all) awaken as dharmadhātu,
Clear, lucid, and free of all conceptualization,
And may I actualise the luminosity of death.
If I cannot merge with the dharmakāya
And seize the primordial expanse within,
The extremely subtle energy-mind
Will develop in reverse from near-attainment
To increase and appearance, and
As the primordially pure expanse of the basal dhātu,
The bardo of dharmatā, dawns,
May I realise it through the view of Trekchö.
As the natural luminosity of the ground,
All appearances will manifest as five-coloured light, like unfurled brocade.
Then, through my familiarity with Tögal,
May I recognise them as my own manifestation – without self-nature –
So that they are instantly exhausted within suchness.
Yet, should luminosity dissolve into union,
The appearances of the hundred deities will dawn,
With terrifying sounds and startling brilliance.
If these appearances strike me with terror,
May I recall that they are like nothing more than stuffed lions
And thereby gain unshakeable confidence.
For five days of meditative absorption,
As I behold the faces of the buddhas of the five families,
May I connect them with my own natural radiance
And allow awareness to enter into luminosity.
Then, once the forms are absorbed into me,
When luminosity dissolves into awareness,
May I be liberated like a child leaping into its mother’s lap.
Similarly, when union dissolves into wisdom,
And luminosity appears as radiant spheres ( bindu ) –
The appearances of fourfold wisdom,
The inner path of Vajrasattva –
May I seize the very ground of awareness.
As wisdom dissolves into spontaneous presence,
Kāyas, wisdoms, compassion, lights,
Freedom from extremes, non-duality, purity, and impurity
Appear as the eight great gateways of spontaneous wisdom.
As entrance to, or withdrawal from, saṃsāra and nirvāṇa
Is simply the natural expression of awareness,
May I gain confidence in the great display of the ground,
In which nothing ever wavers from the ground itself.
Moreover, through familiarity with the creation phase,
May the subtle body of wind and mind
Arise through the five aspects of complete enlightenment 3
As the kāya of the yidam deity, complete with marks and signs,
And thus by merging with the saṃbhogakāya within the bardo,
May I arise in an illusory kāya.
May those who take devotion as their practice
Find relief in the five recollections, 4 six clairvoyances, 5
And unfailing powers of mnemonic retention,
And, having brought the guru to mind, come under his protection.
May we recall and behold the face of the yidam deity.
And may we recollect the view, meditation,
Places of rebirth, and the pith instructions.
Similarly, may I remember past lives,
View death and transmigration and future birth,
Know the minds of others,
And be aware of hidden phenomena.
May I see the beings of the six classes in their various realms,
Gain pure sensory perception and clairvoyance,
And unfailingly recall and retain
All the boundless forms of Dharma,
Represented by the teachings I’ve already heard.
Crucially, at this time, may I recognise
The empty, primordially pure and unelaborate nature
Of awareness nakedly, just as it is,
Decide upon it and gain confidence.
In essence, there is no limit to how the bardo
Of dharmatā might be investigated,
But by turning the investigation upon the investigator,
It is clear that there is nothing whatsoever that is real,
And even the idea of non-existence disappears by itself.
This is the site of primordial liberation.
Having attained the ‘youthful kāya in a vase’,
May I emanate from its spontaneous, creative power
To dredge the depths of saṃsāra for the benefit of all.
Yet, if I should wander into the bardo of becoming,
I will become an aggregate of the four ‘names’ – 6
With all senses intact and a body of mental energy.
I’ll clearly recall my death and know that I’ve passed on,
Blown about like a feather borne upon the wind,
Barred only from the place of liberation and site of rebirth.
I’ll follow the winds of karma, suffer exhaustion,
And, in terror, endure the torments of my death
Repeatedly, at the end of each and every week,
As, all the while, I seek a place to take rebirth.
At this time, through having familiarised myself
With Manifest Joy, The Glorious,
Stacked Lotuses, Perfect Deeds Accomplished,
And Blazing Mountain in the centre –
The five naturally emanated pure realms,
Which grant the wondrous relief of total liberation,
May I proceed there without the slightest hesitation.
If I’m not ripened by empowerment into the dynamic energy
Of intrinsic awareness and haven’t seen the truth,
The indications of my future birth will manifest:
I’ll look downwards at a tree stump for the hells
Or at smoke for the land of hungry spirits.
I’ll look ahead and perceive blood as an animal, or rain and snow as a titan.
I’ll look up and perceive whiteness as a god or a human being –
And if a god of the desire realm, I’ll delight in objects;
If a god of the form realm, I’ll revel in light;
And if a god of the formless realm, I’ll relish
Open space that is devoid of anything at all.
Then, especially upon seeing the union of my future parents,
Through having trained in the insubstantiality of attachment and aversion,
Or experienced the meaning of the third empowerment,
And through purifying the four ways of taking birth
Based on familiarity with mantric conduct,
The cleansing agent of creation phase yoga,
May I blend my birth with the nirmāṇakāya,
And thus gain the power to reconnect with my practice. 7
If I cannot integrate the empowerments that ripen,
Instructions that liberate, samaya that is to be kept
And result to be obtained, and am unfamiliar
With the key points of transference of the three doors 8
As deity, mantra and suchness,
The energies of the four elements will function
To produce four types of terrifying sound, 9
The three poisons will yield three forms of abyss, 10
Negative habits will adopt the shapes of executioners,
And there will be fires, waters and fearsome beasts.
Then may I find solace by taking refuge in the three rare and sublime ones
And through the force of previously accumulated virtue.
May I select an excellent entrance to future rebirth,
A physical form complete with the freedoms and advantages,
And by combining this with pure prayers of aspiration,
May I obtain a form possessing the seven qualities of the higher realms, 11
Use it to please the guru,
Have the freedom to practice the Dharma perfectly,
And through following instructions to the letter,
Merge my own mind with the guru’s wisdom!