Consecrating the Vase for the Practice of the Great Compassionate One, Natural Liberation of Suffering
oṃ svabhāva śuddhāḥ sarvadharmāḥ svabhāva śuddho ‘haṃ
The vase has the nature of emptiness, beyond any conceptual reference.
Within it is the palace of perfect qualities.
In its centre all the deities clearly appear and from the seed-syllables at their hearts
Light radiates, inviting the wisdom deities.
vajra-samāja jaḥ
jaḥ hūṃ baṃ hoḥ
oṃ vajra-arghaṃ pādyaṃ puṣpe dhūpe āloke gandhe naivedye śabda āḥ hūṃ
To all those worthy of praise
I bow down with as many bodies
As there are atoms in the universe.
With steadfast faith, I pay homage!
From the life-force mantra at your heart light rays radiate,
Flow through the dhāraṇī cord and invoke the wisdom minds of the deities in the vase.
From their bodies a stream of bodhicitta-amṛta
Descends and becomes of one taste, beyond any duality, with the water of the vase.
oṃ maṇi padme hūṃ hrīḥ
From my heart radiate rays of light,
Invoking the sacred pledges of the deities of the vase.
From myself and the deities radiate lights rays,
Touching the body of the object of my focus, the deceased called name of the deceased , whether they remain in the realms of the six classes or in the intermediate state,
And cleansing and purifying all their negative actions, obscurations, suffering, physical, vocal and mental karmas and their negative emotions. Their consciousness enters the divine maṇḍala here and a special bliss arises in their body and mind. Meditate on this again and again.
oṃ maṇi padme hūṃ hrīḥ
oṃ vajrasattva samayam…
oṃ namo bhagavate sarva-durgate pariśodhani-rājāya | tathāgatāya | arhate samyak-saṃbuddhāya | tad yathā | oṃ śodhane śodhane | sarva pāpaṃ viśodhane | śuddhe viśuddhe | sarva-karma-avaraṇa viśodhane svāhā
namo ratna-trayāya | namo bhagavate | vajra-sāra-pramardane | tathāgatāya arhate samyak-saṃbhuddhāya | tad yathā | oṃ vajre vajre mahāvajre | mahā-teja-vajre | mahā-vidyā-vajre | mahā-bodhicitta-vajre mahā-bodhi-maṇḍopa-saṃkramaṇa-vajre | sarva-karm-āvaraṇa-viśodhana-vajre svāhā
All the physical, vocal and mental karma, negative actions and obscurations
Of the object of your focus, the deceased called name of deceased —śāntiṅ-kuruye svāhā.
In the activity vase the King of Wrath Hayagrīva instantly appears. His body is red in colour, in his right hand he holds a club,
And his left hand is in the threatening mudrā. From his heart rays of light radiate and re-converge, enacting the twofold benefit.
From his entire body flows a stream of purifying amṛta that fills the vase.
oṃ vajra-krodha-hayagrīva hūṃ phaṭ
Hrīḥ. Dharmakāya of all the victorious ones, progeny of the Lotus Family,
Lord of Dharma Amitābha—Buddha of Boundless Light, Vajradharma,
Lord Avalokiteśvara, your form arising majestically from hrīḥ,
And Hayagrīva, making neighing sounds, to you I pay homage!
oṃ vajrasattva samayam…
With oṃ āḥ hūṃ the water of the conch is presented as an offering, causing the deities to melt into the essence of great empty bliss, becoming indivisible with the water of the vase.
The deities of the activity vase melt into light and emanate infinitely small wrathful deities.
oṃ vajrasamaya oṃ | āḥ vajrasamaya āḥ | hūṃ vajrasamaya hūṃ | svā vajrasamaya svā | hā vajrasamaya hā
Oṃ. King of Wisdom with your wondrous enlightened body,
Speech, mind, qualities and activity—
With all of those in union,
Bring me to the state of mahāmudrā!
oṃ vajrasamaya hūṃ | oṃ vajrasamaya sthaṃ | oṃ vajrasamaya hoḥ
Oṃ. Please grant your permission for this student of mine
To enter this great maṇḍala
Of the heart of all the thus-gone ones,
Who are the source of primordial vajra wisdom.
jaḥ hūṃ baṃ hoḥ | oṃ vajrasattva samayam…
Oṃ āḥ hūṃ. Glorious root guru, precious one,
Dwell on the lotus-seat in the depth of my heart,
Look upon me with the grace of your great compassion,
Grant me the supreme empowerments of body, speech and mind!