A Lament of Faith A Short Remembrance of, and Prayer to, My Guru, the Wish-Fulfilling Jewel
Master over the treasury of fearless debate, exposition, and composition,
With all the qualities of the three trainings perfectly complete,
Precious source of unfathomable benefit and happiness—
Supreme guide, glorious guru, I pray to you! 1
The guru’s kindness turned my mind toward the Dharma,
The guru’s kindness caused me to take delight in Dharma,
And if I haven’t abandoned the outward guise of a dharma practitioner—that too is the guru’s kindness.
Supreme guide, glorious guru, I pray to you!
Having determined that the vital point for achieving enlightenment in a single lifetime
Isn’t ethics, nor joyous effort, nor wisdom,
But that awakening is won only through devotion to the guru—
Supreme guide, glorious guru, I pray to you!
Through the auspicious connection of strong devotion to a realized guru,
It’s possible to experience the highest wisdom
Without the slightest effort at practice.
Supreme guide, glorious guru, I pray to you!
Persons considered evil and immoral, like butchers and prostitutes,
Are not suitable for salvation in the lesser vehicles.
Yet, many such adepts have been liberated through the path of guru devotion.
Supreme guide, glorious guru, I pray to you!
The secret treasury of the ḍākinīs and the eight chariots of accomplishment
Are of a single voice in proclaiming reliance on guru yoga
As the secret and most crucial point of practice.
Supreme guide, glorious guru, I pray to you!
You may spend your life behaving ethically and acting with restraint,
But unless you’ve established the vital point of practice, the very root of the path, devotion to the guru,
You’ll remain no better than an ordinary person.
Supreme guide, glorious guru, I pray to you!
You may be learned in the sūtras, tantras and various sciences,
But, unless you’ve received the blessing of a guru who holds the three lineages,
The realization of the ultimate meaning will not transfer to you.
Supreme guide, glorious guru, I pray to you!
You may recite many billions of mantras,
But, unless you realize the guru and deity to be inseparable,
You’ll not achieve the supreme accomplishment in this lifetime.
Supreme guide, glorious guru, I pray to you!
You may have been introduced to the genuine nature, the natural state of mind;
However, unless this recognition is supported by faith as a constant companion,
The power and expression of your experience and realization will lack direction and won’t increase.
Supreme guide, glorious guru, I pray to you!
You may offer prostrations, construct stūpas, and engage in many other virtuous deeds,
But, unless you know the guru to be Buddha in person,
You won’t be able to capture the primordial stronghold in this lifetime.
Supreme guide, glorious guru, I pray to you!
You may have been born in opulence and heard your praises resounding throughout the world,
But, unless you continually recall the guru’s kindness,
You’ll not progress on the path of the pure, divine Dharma.
Supreme guide, glorious guru, I pray to you!
Unless you know how to revive yourself through faith,
A sudden onset of negative circumstances could send you on errant ways,
And there will be nothing to clear the pain, remorse and suffering.
Supreme guide, glorious guru, I pray to you!
Now I’ll not deceive myself:
My guru, you who are the Buddha in person, hold me in your compassion!
You are the focal point of my life, stronger and more majestic even than a mountain.
Care for me! Care for me! Gracious guru, care for me!
As if in a blurry dream, I find myself continually waiting to behold your face.
Whatever befalls me, be it pleasant or otherwise,
I have no other hope but you.
Care for me! Care for me! Wish-fulfilling Jewel, care for me!
There are those who study extensively yet lack practice and accomplishment,
Or who display high realization but have no thorough training in Dharma.
Reflecting on this makes me remember you, my guru—
You who, like the six ornaments and two supreme ones, combine both learning and accomplishment.
Some do not consider sentient beings or the teachings but pursue their own comfort.
Their minds are not yet matured but they claim to act with genuine altruism.
Reflecting on this makes me remember you, my guru—
You who, like the perfect Buddha, spontaneously fulfilled the dual purpose.
Some see monastic discipline as supreme, and show little interest in mantra.
Others enter the path of mantra and then allow all other vows to lapse.
Reflecting on this makes me remember you, my guru—
You, a vajra-holder with the three vows, just like Pema Karpo.
For some, following a monastic life means giving up the lot of a lay person;
While remaining a lay person precludes becoming a disciple of the learned.
Reflecting on this makes me remember you, my guru—
You, protector of the four groups of disciples, benefactor of all, just like the moon.
Some know the long lineage of kama , but lack the fortune to receive the short lineage of terma;
Whereas others hold many termas but do not possess the lineage of kama.
Reflecting on this makes me remember you, my guru—
You who resemble a wish-fulfilling vase filled entirely with kama and terma teachings.
Some consider their own way to be supreme, and belittle the ways of others;
They parrot others’ ideas while casting the Dharma of the lineage aside.
Reflecting on this makes me remember you, my guru—
You who care for all teachings, like the sun of the world.
Fame and renown can entail a lack of experience and realization,
Whilst high realization doesn’t always mean recognition is forthcoming.
Reflecting on this makes me remember you, my guru—
You, like a wheel-turning monarch, in control of the three worlds.
There can be a fine Dharma practitioner who yet lacks worldly skill,
Or a worldly person with great skill who yet has very little Dharma.
Reflecting on this makes me remember you, my guru—
You, like a fine captain, well versed and skilled in both Dharma and the world.
No matter the circumstance, I completely accept your guidance
And will act on whatever advice you have given me, my protector.
Whether or not the signs of blessing are manifest,
And whether or not the fortune of accomplishment is won, I shall have no regret.
If I’m happy and my circumstances good, this is simply your blessing, my guru.
When relaxed, I may sing a little song of realization and prayer.
I pray to you, and dedicate everything to the benefit and happiness of all.
Bless me, that I may develop genuine love and compassion.
If I’m unhappy and in difficulty, I see this as accomplishment, as former misdeeds purified.
I pray to you, my guru: may I perfect my practice!
I pray to you: may I see the dissatisfactory nature of things.
Bless me, that I may develop weariness with saṃsāra, and strong renunciation.
All the practices of creation-phase yoga, deity meditation, mantra recitation and counting, and the rest—
They’re all to be found in the simple practice of guru devotion.
Herein lie all the crucial points of the four nails that secure the life-force of the practice.
Bless me, that I may see whatever appears as divine.
The subtle essence, haṃ , is none other than the great bliss of my guru’s heart.
Moved by the tummo of devotion and compassionately flowing,
It befriends the ḍākinīs of the sacred places and simultaneously brings forth the experience of bliss and emptiness conjoined.
Bless me, that I may perfect the practice.
I may understand the words but fail to realize the meaning;
Through effort-based meditation I remain bound, can’t realize the bhūmis.
Bless me, that I may do without contrived elaborations,
Able to meditate continuously, without acceptance or rejection, day and night.
Henceforth, whenever I think of your smiling face, my protector,
I will think back to the life stories of the realized masters.
May I never behold you as an ordinary person—
Bless me, that I may see you as the supreme deity.
Essentially, from now on and in all lives to come,
May I follow and please you, my protector;
May there be no obstacles in my Dharma or in life;
Bless me, that my mind may merge indivisibly with your wisdom.