The Sublime Path to Immortality The Quintessence of Profoundly Secret Pith Instructions on Attaining Vajra Longevity Refuge and Bodhichitta Visualization Invocation Receiving the Siddhi Dedication
Namo guru vajra-ayurjñānaye!
Namo! In the Guru of Longevity, the all-encompassing refuge,
I devotedly take refuge. So that I and all beings, limitless as space,
May overcome all obstacles set by the Lord of Death,
I arouse the intention to become an immortal vidyādhara.
Ah, complete in the instant of recollection, like water poured into water,
The environment becomes the Lotus Palace of Great Bliss. In its centre
My mind in its purity is a red hrīḥ , 1 which radiates and absorbs light,
Becoming the Blessed Lord Amitāyus, the vidyādhara.
I am resplendent ruby red, youthful as a sixteen-year-old,
Smiling serenely, attractive, resplendent with marks and signs.
My hands rest in equanimity, holding the vase of immortality.
In my embrace is gold-red Guhyajñānā, holding a long-life arrow and vase.
We are united in great bliss, with all sambhogakāya ornaments perfect.
As we sit in vajra posture upon a lotus and a moon-disc seat,
Within a luminous expanse of rainbow-coloured lights,
All aggregates, elements, senses, and thoughts
Are spontaneously, primordially present as the divine longevity maṇḍala.
Above my crown, upon a seat of lotus and moon-disc,
The Master of Longevity Padmasambhava resides, the family lord.
Red-tinged white, he smiles peacefully; in equipoise, he holds a long-life vase. 2
He is united inseparably with Mandāravā, the supreme consort.
They are adorned with sambhogakāya ornaments and rest in vajra posture.
Their blissful warmth blazes as a sphere of light, drawing in
All the vital essences of saṃsāra and nirvāṇa.
At the core of the double vajra in the centre of my heart, a sun and moon disc casket
Holds a bindu of five-coloured light
And the essence of prāṇa-mind—a red hrīḥ .
Like a flame, it blazes with light that fills the entire universe,
Turning all apparent reality into brilliantly shining hrīḥ syllables
Which flicker like the dust that shimmers in sunbeams.
All sounds, all voices become the marvellous resonance of hrīḥ ,
Like the roaring hum of a beehive that has broken open.
All thoughts are naturally liberated, beyond grasping, in the all-encompassing expanse.
All is complete within immutable bliss-emptiness—the vajra life-force.
Hrīḥ, blessed Amitāyus, quintessence of all the victors,
Padmasambhava, embodiment of wisdom, love, and power,
Precious lord of refuge, whose kindness is without equal,
I pray to you with deep yearning and devotion!
In your great wisdom, and in the light of your powerful resolve,
Grant me the siddhi of deathless vajra life;
Please ripen and liberate my very being!
The crowning family lord is unable to resist my invocation.
With unbearable delight, the father and mother in their union
Fill all realms with blissful sounds and lights,
And the essential vitality of existence and peace is absorbed into their forms.
It travels down through the Guru’s central channel into his heart,
And the flow of red and white bodhicitta, the passionate play of method and wisdom,
Descends from the point of their union, filling my body to the brim.
The essential vitality condenses into the life-force syllable hrīḥ .
The sun and moon casket closes, and the points of the double vajra
Are entwined at the top, tightly closed and sealed.
My body has the nature of sky-like empty clarity.
I obtain the everlasting and unchanging treasure of
The immortal rainbow body, the vajrakāya of primordial wisdom.
Through the virtue gathered by this practice of deathlessness,
May all beings become vessels for the immortal vidyādhara.
Thus, may the dark forces of the lord of death be overcome,
Ushering in the auspicious light of joyful goodness!