Middle Way Aspiration
Guiding light of this world, crowning glory of the Śākya clan,
Seniormost of buddha’s heirs, precious wisdom’s treasure,
Successors to these teachings, noble Nāgārjuna and your spiritual sons,
I prostrate before you all, the supreme of guides for living beings!
Buddhapālita, you who realized the Middle Way beyond extremes,
Master of the bodhisattvas’ enlightened actions, Śāntideva,
Upholder of the great tradition of the Prāsaṅgika, Candrakīrti,
Respectfully, I bow before you—think of me with great compassion!
From this day on, throughout all my future lives,
May I gain the freedoms and endowments and meet with buddhas’ teachings.
May I be accepted by an authentic spiritual teacher,
Whom I follow well, with all three kinds of faith! 1
Having fully received instructions from my supreme and noble guide,
On the definitive meaning that is the intent of the profoundest sūtras,
May I reach conclusive certainty through the three kinds of wisdom, 2
And gain the conviction of one who relies upon the Dharma!
Taking faith and great compassion as the basis of my path,
And never forgetting the Three Jewels, the sources of refuge,
May I embark fully upon the path of the Mahāyāna,
And arouse a mind of bodhicitta that is uncontrived!
With the courageous willingness to sacrifice even life and limb,
May I give away to others all that I own and have within myself,
And, guarding my mindstream with the purest moral discipline,
May I never stray beyond the boundaries of my vows!
Seeing all who do me harm as equal to some priceless treasure,
May I honour them with a mind of joy and great respect,
And always, in all my lives to come, may I rely
Upon this wondrous conduct born of a noble heart!
The naturally pure, ultimate space of all phenomena
Is entirely beyond the realm of concepts such as ‘is’ or ‘is not.’
May my failure to understand and false ideas be cleared away,
So that I come to see the truth of reality itself directly.
Views based on existence and non-existence are limiting ideas,
Clinging to both and to neither is the product of a mistaken mind.
The Middle Way is free from these four extremes of elaboration,
May I see this reality that the learned ones have taught!
All outer and inner things are not produced by themselves,
Or from something else, from both or without cause at all.
With regard to all the things that are known in this world,
May I adopt and avoid, engage in and withdraw from what I should.
May I abandon all falsely conceived notions of a self,
Thinking it is identical to the aggregates, distinct from them and so on,
And, through the sevenfold reasoning of the chariot,
May I gain certainty that it is but a dependent imputation!
All knowable things have always been empty by their very essence.
May I now eliminate entirely the pain of conceptual thoughts,
With their mode of perceiving which obscures genuine reality,
Thinking for example that things abide forever or even partially persist.
May the excellent meaning that is conveyed through examples
Such as gold within rock, or a lamp inside a vase be revealed.
According to the vision of the noble father, glorious protector Nāgārjuna,
And may I complete all the stages and paths to gain the dharmakāya!
Then may I manifest continuously in many billions of emanations,
To all the buddha’s heirs throughout the far reaches of space itself,
And to infinite oceans of beings of every type, lesser and greater,
Guiding each and every one according to their mind’s capacity!
From now until I reach that perfect level of attainment,
In all my lives, may I realize and skilfully teach to others
The meaning of the Middle Way beyond all extremes,
Becoming the equal of glorious Āryadeva!