The Radiant Treasure of Blessings A Guru Yoga of the Great Vajradhara Ngawang Samten Lodrö 1. Refuge and Bodhicitta 2. The Main Part 3. Receiving Empowerment
I and all beings who are as infinite as space
Take refuge until we reach the essence of awakening.
In order to bring liberation from the ocean of existence and the lower realms,
I generate the intention to accomplish profound guru practice.
Out of the empty luminous nature of all phenomena,
Arises the jewelled palace, immense in size,
And amidst an infinite ocean of offering clouds,
In the sky before me, upon a lion throne, lotus and moon,
Is my root guru Ngawang Samten Lodrö
In wisdom form, resplendent as the sun.
His face is broad and his eyes are half-closed.
He wears monastic robes and his right hand is in the gesture of supreme giving,
His left, in the gesture of equanimity, holds a wish-granting jewel.
Unparalleled in splendour, he embodies all sources of refuge.
Guided by an ocean of erudite and accomplished scholars,
You possess the noble intellect born of meditative absorption,
And through the three ways of the learned you illuminate the Buddha’s teachings—
May you continue to blaze with signs of positivity.
All-pervasive Vajra-holder embodying the power and strength
Of the Lord of Secrets, Vajrabhairava and the rest,
Learned and accomplished master, Dharma sovereign,
I pray to you wholeheartedly: grant supreme and ordinary attainments!
oṃ āḥ guru vajradhara sarva siddhi hūṃ
Glorious guru who embodies every source of refuge,
Consider me and all others with your loving care,
And grant us blessings and the supreme attainment.
Inspire us to realize co-emergent primordial wisdom.
From the three centres of the guru’s form,
Emanate rays of white, red and blue light,
Which dissolve into my three centres, gradually then all at once.
Realization of the four empowerments arises in my mindstream.
Then the guru melts into light and dissolves into me.
The nature of mind, its genuine condition,
Is indivisible emptiness and great bliss,
And all its manifold expressions
I recognize as the display of the guru’s three secrets.