Freedom from All Adversity A Sur Offering to Harmful Influences, Obstacle-Makers and Elemental Spirits
oṃ āh hūṃ | namaḥ sarva tathāgata avalokite | oṃ sambhara sambhara hūṃ.
Homage to the tathāgata Bountiful Riches.
Homage to the tathāgata Sublimely Handsome.
Homage to the tathāgata Unbounded Body.
Homage to the tathāgata Deity of Total Fearlessness.
Hoḥ. This sur offering to delight the six senses
Arises as clouds of whatever individuals desire,
Filling the sky and earth and everywhere in between.
This vast and inexhaustible treasure of bliss
I offer to guests worthy of compassion among the six classes,
And especially to those who frequent this region,
Those obstacle-makers and vengeful karmic creditors,
Ravenous spirits, deadly male and female ghouls,
Controllers of sickness, infection, and loss of livestock,
Local spirits, accursed demons, and ghosts of former kin,
Those who, out of attachment and avarice,
Pursue riches and human beings,
Those who inflict all manner of harm
Based on thoughts of envy and hostility,
Gandharvas and beings of the intermediate state,
Famishing spirits, serak spirits 2 and hungry ghosts,
Those controlled by karma in conditioned existence,
Who roam about in a variety of guises,
Searching for all manner of foods,
And, through various thoughts and deeds,
Constantly engaging in various forms of harm—
To all those harmful influences, obstacle-makers and elemental spirits,
Including those of major and those of minor power,
Without any partiality or notions of loss and gain,
I dedicate an inexhaustible treasury of all that might be wished for.
Once you have received whatever it is that you desire,
May all your savagery and violence be assuaged,
And may you come to possess bodhicitta.
May those who prey on vitality and souls,
Those who crave riches and hunt provisions,
As well as elemental spirits who impair magnificence
All be satisfied by this offering and generosity.
May all karmic debts from former lives be dissolved.
May misdeeds, obscurations and bonds of vengeance be purified.
May suffering and mental afflictions be pacified.
Through dedicating these, my offerings and my gifts,
May all the hosts of elemental demons be satisfied,
And thereby may I and all sentient beings
Be freed from all forms of harm and adversity,
Such as untimely death and ill health.
May all our hopes and wishes be enduringly fulfilled.
May we escape demons that prey on body and location.
May all that obstructs our desired aims be pacified.
And may auspiciousness and happiness abound!
Through the power of bodhicitta equality,
May all the objects and agents of harm
Attain awakening inseparably from the state
Of great bliss within the dharmadhātu.
Just like the inexhaustible treasury of the sky,
May these enjoyments be unending.
Without resorting to conflict or violence,
May all experience independent power.
Having savoured without attachment
The immaculate pleasures of the six senses,
May all realize the meaning of selfless equality
And attain the unborn dharmakāya.
Through the pure strength of my own merits,
The force of the tathāgatas' blessings,
And the power of the dharmadhātu,
May whatever aspirations exist
Directed toward the benefit of beings,
In this and every other world realms—
All of them, no matter what their kind—
Be fulfilled without any hindrance.
The three realms are a pure land,
The three planes of existence guests worthy of compassion,
And sustenance pervades everywhere without exception.
Through the power of realizing the nature of reality,
I dedicate all this as an inexhaustible treasure.
oṃ āḥ hūṃ
oṃ maṇi padme hūṃ hrīḥ
Through the power of this vast act of generosity
May we spontaneously attain buddhahood for the benefit of beings.
All those who were not liberated by the buddhas of the past,
Through this act of generosity, may they be liberated.
May all the spirits gathered in this place,
Be it on the earth or in the water or in the sky,
Always show goodwill and kindness to all beings,
And practise Dharma day and night.
May the 80,000 classes of obstructing forces all be pacified,
May we be freed from all forms of adversity and harm,
And may all our circumstances be favourable and perfect in every way—
Through this auspiciousness, may there be happiness and well-being here and now!