A Prayer to the King and Twenty-Five Disciples A Stream of Blessing: Verses of Supplication to the Accomplished Holders of Mantra who Gained Realization in this Snowy Land of Tibet 1
You abide in the cave of glorious Samyé Chimpu
At Drakmar, pure land of this world.
To you, Vajra Master Guru Padma,
We pray: please grant your blessings!
When your body was residing there
With your speech, uttering Hūṃ, you averted an avalanche
And blessed the site with this syllable 2 of your unchanging mind 3
To you we pray: please grant your blessings!
Great monk born into the Nub clan,
At Lhodrak Kharchu, you accomplished Śrī Heruka, enlightened mind.
To you, Namkhé Nyingpo, who rides the rays of the sun,
We pray: please grant your blessings!
Coming from the valleys in the land of Nub, Sangye Yeshe,
At Drak Yangdzok you accomplished Yamāntaka, slayer of the Lord of Death.
To you, who pierces solid rocks with a kīla ,
We pray: please grant your blessings!
Bhikṣu born into the Nyenlam clan in Uru,
At Wentsa, you accomplished Hayagrīva, Mighty Lotus.
To you, Gyal Chok Yang, who neighs from the crown of his head,
We pray: please grant your blessings!
Born amid wondrous signs into the Kharchen clan in Dragda,
At Mönkha Nering, you accomplished Kīlaya, enlightened activity.
To you, Tsogyal, who revives the dead,
We pray: please grant your blessings!
At the mountain range of Yartö Shampo
You accomplished the higher states of cyclic existence.
To you, Drogmi Palye, who makes mamos his servants,
We pray: please grant your blessings!
At Patro Taksang in the cave called “Fulfillment of Wishes”
You accomplished Drekpa Dakpo, 4 lord over the arrogant ones.
To you, Palgyi Senge, who enslaves gods and demons,
We pray: please grant your blessings!
At Yamalung and Liyul Changra
You accomplished Tobden Nakpo, 5 'Black Powerful One'.
To you, Vairocana, with your wisdom eye,
We pray: please grant your blessings!
In the centre of the three-storey temple of glorious Samye
You accomplished Mahottara, 6 Vajra master of the assembly.
To you, King Tri Songdetsen, with your unwavering samādhi,
We pray: please grant your blessings!
Yudra Nyingpo, with supreme accomplishment,
Jñānakumāra, with magical powers,
Dorje Düdjom, unhindered like the wind,
To you we pray: please grant your blessings!
Yeshe Yang, who travels to celestial realms,
Lhapal, who catches wild beasts by their neck,
Nanam Yeshe, who flies like a bird through the sky,
To you we pray: please grant your blessings!
Palkyi Wangchuk, who liberates others by merely raising his phurba ,
Denma Tsemang, with unforgetting memory,
Kawa Paltsek, who reads the minds of others,
To you we pray: please grant your blessings!
Shüpu Palseng, who reverses the flow of rivers,
Gyalwe Lodrö, who transforms corpses into gold,
Khye'u Chung Lotsā, who catches birds in the sky,
To you we pray: please grant your blessings!
Drenpa Namkha, who summons wild yaks,
Otren Wangchuk, who swims like a fish,
Matok Rinchen, who eats rocks,
To you we pray: please grant your blessings!
Palkyi Dorje, who passes through mountains unhindered,
Könchok Jungne, who shoots lightning like an arrow,
Gyalwa Changchub, who sits cross-legged in the sky,
To you we pray: please grant your blessings!
You, who actualized Orgyen's wisdom and are embraced by him,
Heart-disciples—the king and the twenty-five subjects.
To you who were matured, liberated and achieved certainty, we pray:
Please grant your blessings, so that we may become just like you!
Your view is the realization of the infinite vast expanse,
Your meditation is clear like the sun unobstructed by clouds,
To this place, where we pray to you,
Please deliver your blessings swiftly!
You perfected conduct and reveal signs of accomplishment
To attain the level of Samantabhadra.
I and all sentient beings pray:
At this very instant, may you grant your blessings!