The Tamboura of Devotion A Prayer to Götsang Gönpo Dorje
Homage to the noble gurus!
Upon sun and moon-disc seats at my crown,
Sits the glorious guru unmatched in kindness,
The sovereign lord and master, Gönpo Dorje—
To you I pray: hold me in your compassion!
Lord, as you remain in unmanifest basic space,
You are one with the buddhas in realization,
And equal to the glorious heruka in activity,
Mightiest of yogins, foremost among adepts.
Lord, as I pray to you with fervent devotion,
Confer the blessings and empowerments of your three secrets.
Shower down a great rain of vajra blessings, here and now,
And cause experience and realization to develop in my mind.
From the maṇḍala of your form, complete with the three seats,
May the vase empowerment serve to ripen my body,
Purify any blockages within my physical channels,
And refine my body as the vajra of enlightened form.
Lord, from the maṇḍala of your enlightened vajra speech,
May the secret empowerment serve to ripen my speech,
Purify any defects of speech or dynamic wind-energy,
And refine my voice as the vajra of enlightened speech.
From the maṇḍala of the vajra mind of awareness and emptiness,
May the knowledge-wisdom empowerment ripen my mind,
Purify any faults of mind or the emission of subtle essences,
And refine my intellect as the vajra of enlightened mind.
Lord, from the maṇḍala of your enlightened vajra wisdom,
May the realization of the fourth empowerment develop,
Purifying any obscurations of the all-ground consciousness,
And refining my mind as vajra awareness and emptiness.
Help me to generate intense and longing devotion,
So that upon the pure ground of ardent veneration,
The reflection of your wisdom form may arise,
O protector, and your realization be transmitted.
May I always follow the sources of refuge—the guru
And the Three Jewels—with total trust and reliance.
And no matter what befalls me physically or mentally,
Whether joy or sorrow, may the sublime ones protect me!
Since the sentient beings of the six realms
Have been my father and mother in the past,
May I be able to free them from the ocean of misery
And deliver them to the state of perfect freedom.
Clearly and steadily visualizing my body as the yidam deity,
With my speech a constant river-like flow of mantra recitation,
And my mind in the state of self-liberation, Mahāmudrā—
May I strive at all times with unwavering enthusiasm.
All virtues amassed throughout the three times,
I mentally gather together and offer to all beings.
May each and every one throughout the whole of space
Attain the level of this splendid master of the four kāyas.
Mighty lord of siddhas, know me! Care for me!
Inspire me with your blessings, this very instant!
Inspire me with your blessings, in this very place!
Inspire me with your blessings, upon this very seat!
Guru, crowning ornament of a hundred siddhas,
Gyalwa Götsangpa Gönpo Dorje, care for me!