The Cascading Essence of Great Bliss An Empowerment Ritual for the Female Practice of the Queen of Great Bliss, from the Heart Essence of the Vast Expanse 1. The Preliminaries 2. The Main Part 1. Practising for the Sake of Granting the Empowerment 2. The Main Section: The Actual Empowerment 1. The Entrance The Request Taking Refuge Arousing Bodhicitta Eight Branch Offering Accepting the Samayas Paying Homage The Visualization Descent of Blessing The Request 2. The Actual Empowerment 1. Vase Empowerment 2. Secret Empowerment 3. Knowledge Wisdom Empowerment 4. The Ultimate Empowerment 3. The Conclusion
Visualize the outside of the vase of the naturally arisen kapāla 4 as the palace and its contents, the maṇḍala of wisdom ḍākinīs. A stream of indestructible ambrosia flows from their bodies and fills the vase.
Within the activity vase, which is perfect in its characteristics, upon a lotus and sun-disk seat, is the mighty Hayagrīva, red in colour, brandishing a skull-mace and raising his hand in the threatening mudrā.
His form has all the accoutrements of a wrathful deity.
oṃ vajra-krodha-hayagrīva hulu hulu hūṃ phaṭ
oṃ āḥ hūṃ
The deities of the vase melt into light and merge indivisibly with the contents of the vase.
The following is to be explained on this occasion: The Vajra Queen Dhātviśvarī is the supreme Mother who gives birth to all the buddhas, the sovereign of an infinite ocean of maṇḍalas. She emanates in forms and names beyond the imagination in order to tame disciples according to their needs. In order to protect all beings of the snowy land of Tibet, the chief of wisdom ḍākinīs, Vajrayoginī herself, took birth intentionally as the Lady of the Kharchen family, displaying a high level of realization.
She became the secret consort of the master Padmasambhava, the second Buddha, and the keeper of the treasury of the teachings of Secret Mantra. With her constant protection the realm of Tibet in the past, present and future, her kindness is equal to that of the master himself.
There have been a great many treasures, both in the past and more recently, based on Yeshe Tsogyal, the sovereign of secrets; all of them profound methods that enable one to attain the two accomplishments. The practice we are concerned with here was revealed by the great vidyādhara Jigme Lingpa, a sky-like yogin of the vast expanse, an emanation of both the Dharma King Trisong Detsen and the prince Chokdrup Gyalpo, 5 in whom the magnificent potential of the wisdom intent of the naturally manifesting, unbiased Great Perfection was fully realized. When Jigme Lingpa was at Tsogyal Latso lake near Drakda, the Lady herself, chief among the hosts of ḍākinīs, arose from the lake and revealed to him her wisdom body in actuality. Compared to all these other practices, this practice is unique in that the empowerment, the blessing and the permission blessing of the maṇḍala of the ḍākinī Queen of Great Bliss, the Female Practice of the Vidyādhara Assembly, are accomplished together.
oṃ cakṣu bhandha vāra maṇāya hūṃ
ah khaṃ vīra hūṃ
While holding the flower with folded hands, pray with unshakeable faith and intense longing to the master, who is indivisible from the principal deity of the maṇḍala, and repeat the following:
Omniscient one, embodiment of primordial wisdom,
Who thoroughly purifies the wheel of existence—
Lord, with your kindness, grant me this precious treasure
Of which you have spoken today. 6
Initially, to purify your mind,
Arouse a yearning to take refuge in the master, Dhātviśvarī The Queen of Great Bliss, and the infinite hosts of the maṇḍala of peaceful and wrathful deities, with fervent devotion and with body, speech and mind, until you and all sentient beings reach the heart of great awakening. Repeat the following:
Namo! Unborn, primordial wisdom is the body of the ḍākinī;
Unceasing, naturally arisen is the yoginī;
Mother of all the buddhas, Vajravārāhī,
In you, beyond union and separation, I take refuge.
With the thought, “In order to bring all mother- and father-like beings throughout the whole of space to the level of the Vajra Queen, the supreme Mother who gives birth to all the buddhas, I will enter this awesome maṇḍala of the wisdom ḍākinī, exert myself in the profound practice of the path and reach its ultimate fruition", arouse the mind set upon awakening and repeat the following:
Hoḥ! From now until I attain awakening,
I will practise you, the wisdom ḍākinī. Once I have accomplished your practice,
I will establish all beings, impartially,
In great bliss.
The essence of accumulating and increasing merit and purifying negativity is the practice of the eight branches, so concentrate, remember the meaning after saying the words, and repeat the following:
I prostrate to the vajra master,
Glorious embodiment of the buddhas of past, present and future!
With a mind free from all duality,
I take refuge in the Three Jewels, the objects of reliance!
I request that you accept these pure offerings,
Both actual and envisioned.
My faults, the hindrances that cut the flow of siddhis,
I confess without exception.
In all those actions, throughout the ten directions, done without attachment,
And free from concepts of subject, object and action, I rejoice!
I awaken the perfect bodhicitta,
Pure, untainted by the four extremes. 7
To the sugatas, mighty lords and sentient beings 8
I offer my body for the threefold purpose. 9
Gathering the merits accumulated throughout all my lives,
I dedicate them to supreme enlightenment!
Since the lifeline of the empowerment depends on the samayas and vows, you must firmly adopt the three sets of vows. Repeat the following:
Bliss Gone One, 10 whatever you are like,
May I become exactly the same,
And carry out wondrous, inconceivable actions
In order to bring benefit to beings.
The vows of the supreme mind set upon awakening
And the mudrās of body, speech and mind,
Even at the cost of my own life, I shall not forsake.
Vajra king, inspire me with your blessings.
Imagine that, by the hands of the master, your eight adventitious consciousnesses are led to the sole entrance of the single sphere, 11 awareness, the essence of your buddha nature.
aḥ khaṃ bīra hūṃ
Imagining that you prostrate yourself—physically, vocally and mentally—before the deities of the maṇḍala, fold your hands and, while touching your three places, repeat the following:
oṃ namas te hūṃ
oṃ nama mi hūṃ
oṃ namo nama hūṃ
Then, aim to become an offspring of the buddhas and meditate as follows.
Imagine that you place yourself before the venerable Vajrayoginī, upon an empowerment platform in the form of a lotus with eight petals. From the heart of the main deity and the Lord of the Families arises a red raṃ syllable, the nature of bliss, which purifies the ripened aggregates, including the eight consciousnesses such as the all-ground consciousness.
Your consciousness transforms into a tāṃ syllable, enters the mouth of the Lord of the Families, flows through his body, and enters the secret space of the consort.
It transforms into bodhicitta, indivisible from the melting bliss, and is then placed upon the empowerment platform referred to above.
Then, the basis for the empowerment is established by bringing down the wisdom. Direct your physical, vocal and mental energy into meditating one-pointedly on the following visualization:
Out of empty form, which has the character of light,
Arises the ḍākinī Queen of Great Bliss.
She has one face and two hands; her body is red in colour.
She is naked, standing in the posture of equanimity, yet ready to act.
Passionate and smiling,
In her right hand she holds a small skull-drum
That is raised and played close to her ear.
In her left hand she holds a hooked knife, the handle
Resting on her hip; her bearing is imposing and graceful.
Her bhaga is expanded and her breasts swell.
She is adorned with jewels and youthful ornaments
And wears a garland of white lotus flowers.
The six bone ornaments adorn her body,
Her black, glistening hair is plaited,
And her jewelled diadem shines majestically.
Her central eye gazes into all-encompassing space.
Her sambhogakāya eye tames beings.
Her nirmāṇakāya eye summons the three realms.
In her body the maṇḍalas of all the classes of tantra are perfectly complete.
She is surrounded by a vast assembly of hundreds of thousands of ḍākinīs.
In her heart is Lady Ārya Tārā.
Blue-green in colour, with one face and two hands.
In her heart is the wisdom deity Vārāhī,
Shiny black in colour and holding a hooked knife and skull-cup.
These are the three nested beings; 12 your five places
Are marked by the five implements and the five seed syllables.
From them, light radiates out
To The Unsurpassed, 13 the celestial realms,
The Land of Turquoise Leaves and the Realm of Lotus Light,
Inviting the wisdom deities from their homes.
They dissolve into you, becoming inseparable.
Hūṃ! In the country known as India
Lies the supreme sacred land of Uḍḍiyāna,
As well as Dhumathala, its citadel of ḍākinīs,
And also Cāmaradvīpa, supreme isle of isles.
In reality they are the Unsurpassed, the pure realm of great bliss,
Yet they appear as emanated celestial realms.
From all those places where you joyfully reside,
Great dharmakāya mother Tsogyal,
Together with your retinue of hundreds of thousands of ḍākinīs,
Come! Inspire me with your blessings—
Shower down your blessings on this supreme place!
Grant me, a supreme practitioner, the four empowerments!
Dispel obstructing forces, corrupting influences and hindrances!
Grant me the supreme and ordinary accomplishments!
oṃ padmo-yoginī tāre tuttāre ture jñāna-vārāhī pheṃ pheṃ
Imagine that the blessing of the wisdom deity remains united with your body, speech and mind.
tiṣṭha vajra
Imagine that you offer the flower, which you were given earlier, to the superior deity, casting it onto the maṇḍala. Repeat the following:
pratīccha vajra hoḥ
Imagine that the flower touches the head of the chief deity of the maṇḍala and that she takes it with her hand. Once again, it is placed on your head, like a crown, the symbol of power. From the superior deity a second wisdom deity emanates and dissolves into you.
pratīccha vajra hoḥ
prati gṛhṇa imam satva mahābala
Imagine that while you remove the blindfold the obscurations of ignorance are removed.
cakṣu praveśaya phaṭ
Within the illusory, manifested maṇḍala consisting of the palace and the deities residing in the space of the wisdom ḍākinī’s body, the maṇḍalas of the various tantra sections are grouped together, present in their entirety.
Imagine that you see them in actuality, inspiring faith and enthusiasm.
With these, the stages for entering the maṇḍala are complete.
Having entered, offer a maṇḍala in order to request the actual empowerment.
Repeat the following prayer:
As the Vajra of Enlightenment bestowed
The supreme worship on the Buddhas,
Bestow it now upon me,
O Vajra Space, for my salvation. 15
Visualize as follows. Imagine that goddesses emanate from the heart of the principal deity of the maṇḍala, filling the naturally arisen kapāla vase with ambrosia and holding it aloft. They pour ambrosia upon your head, which dispels the emotional and cognitive stains and fills you with the wisdom of the three secrets.
Hoḥ. The unsurpassable samayas of Secret Mantra
Of the naturally arisen, spontaneously present vase empowerment,
The sacred empowerment of the three secrets of all the buddhas—
I bestow upon you!
oṃ padmo-yoginī tāre tuttāre ture jñāna-vārāhī kalaśābhiṣiñca hūṃ
With this, you have received the vase empowerment.
Karma of the body and obscurations of the channels are purified.
The blessing of the vajra-body has entered you.
You have become a suitable vessel for generation phase practice.
The seed of the matured vidyādhara has been planted within you.
You have gained the fortune to realize the nirmāṇakāya.
Imagine that this ambrosia is the actual bodhicitta of the master and his consort, and that you receive it from the consort’s secret space. As you taste it [with your tongue], it passes through your throat and fills your channels and elements with bliss.
Hoḥ. The samaya of bodhicitta
Dissolves into the circle of syllables in the channels and elements.
Everything arises from the inexpressible state.
May you obtain the speech empowerment of sound-emptiness.
bodhicittābhiṣiñca hūṃ
Following this imagine that, for the transmission of the mantra recitation,
The mantra garland arises from the heart of the front visualization
And enters into your mouth.
It revolves around the syllable at your heart. Repeat the root mantra three times.
oṃ padmo-yoginī tāre tuttāre ture jñāna-vārāhī hūṃ
Imagine that you offer flower garlands and repeat the following:
Blessed One, I will follow you.
Please take care of me.
Imagine that once again the flower garland is bound on your head.
Blessed One, bestow the empowerment
And your command upon them.
Bestow the accomplishment of Secret Mantra
And make their yogic conduct stable.
With this you have received the secret empowerment.
Karma of the speech and obscurations of the wind-energy are purified.
The blessing of vajra-speech has entered you.
You have become a suitable vessel for mantra recitation.
The seed of the vidyādhara with power over life is planted within you.
You have gained the fortune to realize the saṃbhogakāya.
Place the support—sindūra, which has the nature of the four joys—and the supported—the bell— in the hands of the students. Consider that these are the supports that show liberation, where skilful means and insight are united.
Hoḥ. The primordial wisdom in which all qualities are complete
Depends entirely on the four joys.
The samaya in which skilful means and insight are united,
The great mudrā, you should enjoy.
jaḥ hūṃ baṃ hoḥ
This is the samaya of great enjoyment.
Consider that with 'a ho mahāsukhaḥ' bliss is used as the skilful means through which innate bliss is stabilized definitively.
With this, you have received the insight-wisdom empowerment.
Karma of the mind and obscurations of the essences are purified.
The blessing of vajra-mind has entered you.
You have become a suitable vessel for the bliss-emptiness of caṇḍāli practice.
The seed of the mahāmudrā vidyādhara is planted within you.
You have gained the fortune to realize the dharmakāya.
Focus your awareness on the sound of the ringing bell
And rest in the nature of reality, which cannot be illustrated even by the example wisdom that arises on the basis of skilful means.
Hoḥ. Sound is audible, yet empty.
Likewise, mind is devoid of essence.
In the essenceless natural state
Abandon the ‘looked at’ and perfectly look.
a aḥ
As indicated by these words, you have received the ultimate empowerment.
Karma of the all-ground and cognitive obscurations are purified.
The blessing of vajra-wisdom has entered you.
You have become a suitable vessel for the primordial purity of the Great Perfection.
The seed of the spontaneously accomplished vidyādhara is planted within you.
You have gained the fortune to realize the svabhāvikakāya.
The stages of the empowerment, blessing and permission-blessing of the maṇḍala of the Female Awareness Holder the Queen of Great Bliss have thus been simultaneously accomplished. Now, with intention to guard the crucial samayas as if your life depended on it, repeat the following:
As samaya commitments for having received the four empowerments,
I pledge never to abandon the vajra master,
To observe continually the twenty-fifth day of the lunar calendar, 17
To honour and respect young women,
And always to cultivate twofold bodhicitta.
Vowing to flawlessly protect and uphold all the general and particular samayas of the vajra vehicle, repeat the following.
Whatever the guru, chief of the maṇḍala, commands,
I shall carry out—each and every instruction.
I offer myself entirely to you.
Accept me as your student and I will follow your words in detail.
From this moment on,
I offer myself to you as a servant.
Please take me as your disciple
And make use of every bit of me.