The Tambura of Devotion A Prayer for the Swift Appearance of the Supreme Tulku of the All-Seeing Conqueror and Cardinal Guardian of the Land of Snows
Namo guru lokeśvarāya!
Mighty lord of compassion, holder of the white lotus,
Appearing in a dance-like display in saffron-robes,
All-knowing observer of vows in kingly guise—
Lobzang Tubten Gyatso, to you I pray.
Sole guardian and protector of living beings who are infinite in number
And the precious teachings during this degenerate, five-hundred-year age,
Supreme conqueror, lord of the maṇḍala, incomparable in your kindness,
Guru Padmapāṇi, to you I pray.
You halt the advance of barbarians in this land of Tibet,
And subjugate them through the four kinds of activity. 1
You are the noble King of Dharma manifesting directly,
Glorious Lord of the Potala, to you I bow down.
Although you are entirely unafraid of birth and death,
Our stores of merit are but meagre and, as a result,
The display of your noble form has faded into space.
Who now will act as a sovereign of the teachings?
Alas! Do not lie dormant in the realm of peace, I pray,
But return directly to this domain, O protector,
To secure the welfare of teachings and beings through the four means of attraction, 2
And bring about immense waves of benefit and happiness.
Do not be obstructed by the misfortune of this age.
Swiftly enter the illusory womb of a wisdom mother,
And let the magic of your birth bring joy to beings.
Take up this wondrous and playful role, I pray.
Disciplined, with the full strength of study, reflection and meditation,
May you perfect the power of primordial wisdom's twofold knowledge,
And, as a lamp that illuminates the Buddha's teachings without bias,
Remain upon the immutable vajra throne, I pray.
From this moment forth, on into the distant future,
May you eradicate all that harms the teachings and beings,
And spread the bright light of beneficence in all directions—
Guardian of the Land of Snows, look upon us with compassion, I pray.
Through the power of the truth of praying in this way,
May all these aspirations of mine be perfectly fulfilled,
May the guru Padmapāṇi care for and guide me,
And may I master the Dharma of the supreme vehicle.
May the precious teachings of Buddha spread far and wide,
May the companies of saṅgha who uphold them remain united,
May patrons of the teachings enjoy long lives and abundant merit,
And may the light of auspiciousness shine throughout Tibet.
May the spiritual and secular teachings of the great palace—
Which is as if transferred to this world from the city of immortal gods
Who enjoy a hundred joys—remain long into the future
And bring perfect victory over the hostile forces of Māra.