An Appeal for the Prosperity of Teaching and Studying the Five Major Scriptures
Hūṃ. Guru and yidam deity inseparable, Three Jewels,
Warrior deities, ḍākinīs, and hosts of dharma guardians—
Through the amassing of great clouds of spontaneous activity,
Let fall the virtuous and excellent blessings of study and practice!
Just as Tsongkhapa, who was Mañjughoṣa in person,
Directed his wisdom to the monastery and study and practice—
Now let the resources for the education of the saṅgha
Expand and increase like a lake in summertime!
With bodies fully strengthened by the eight ripened qualities, 1
They joyfully enter the lotus garden of listening and reflecting,
And hum sweetly on the wings of scripture and reasoning—
Grant us prosperity so that countless bee-like students gather!
A teacher who is learned, disciplined and altruistic in intention
And a student who is dedicated, diligent and intelligent—
Through the interdependent circumstances of their coming together,
Grant us the prosperity of raising study’s banner at the world’s very peak!
Understanding through which textual points become practical instructions,
The exercise of reasoning with a precise discernment of words and meaning,
And the generation of certainty with the full support of scriptural citation—
Grant us the prosperity of expanding the feast of exchanges in debate!
Monastic rules include the fundamental intent of the sacred Dharma,
Behaving correctly and forging a straight path between action and effect,
Without lapsing into the supplementary conduct of elimination and guidance—
Grant us the prosperity of a stable foundation based on disciplinary codes!
To shine upon the owl who is stationed upon the rock of improper habit
And so that we might discern the paths to be taken and to be avoided,
Grant us the prosperity of revealing the great light in all its splendour,
The brilliant sun that is the reality of actions and their effects!
Without flaunting unwholesome conduct, speaking erroneously,
Or audaciously lavishing praise based on mere bias, and the like—
Grant us the prosperity of enhancing the Dharma’s reputation
Universally through statements that accord with the Dharma!
The saṅgha is the supreme field of merit,
And the devoted, generous patron gains merit,
Through meritorious gifts, unassociated with misdeeds,
Grant us the prosperity of developing festivals of merit!
Not through a mind that is filled with selfish desire,
But so that study and practice of the teachings may endure,
Spontaneously, through the activity of the guardians,
Grant us the prosperity of increasing property and resources!
In particular, so that those who are bright, responsible and ethical
May remain unperturbed by disease, harmful influences and adversity,
And easily complete the activities related to study and reflection,
Ensure that the twofold aim may be accomplished just as we wish!
In short, may we avoid all that is undesirable and harmful,
May all that is magnificent be spontaneously accomplished,
And by honouring the jewel of the teachings atop the banner of victory,
May the light of virtue and excellence pervade appearance and existence!
May merit increase and grow like Sumeru, king of mountains,
May fame and glory spread as pervasively as the sky itself,
May long-life, good health and others’ welfare be spontaneously accomplished,
And may all be auspicious so that we gain a great ocean of qualities!