Prayer of Aspiration
Oṃ svasti!
Wherein all things, the two truths indivisible,
Are as pure as an immaculate sky—
To the vajra of the awakening mind
Beyond union and separation, I pay homage.
Siddhārtha, great sage
For the whole world including the gods,
Blessed protector Amitābha,
Seven bliss-gone buddhas, Bhaiṣajya Guru,
Whose name alone protects from the lower realms,
Akṣobhya and all the other buddhas,
Sublime and noble Lord of Compassion,
Valiant son of the victors, Mañjuśrī,
And all the other great bodhisattvas, turn your attention towards me!
Cause these aspirations of mine
To be swiftly fulfilled, I pray.
May all sentient beings, my very own mothers,
Who have borne my countless billions of bodies in the past,
And especially my gracious mother of this lifetime,
Who bore this excellent support with its freedoms and advantages,
Be delivered from the terrors of the intermediate state!
May they avoid all wretched states of rebirth
And instead take birth miraculously from a lotus
In a pure realm, there to behold the Buddha’s face
And receive the prophecy of their own awakening.
Even if they must take rebirth within saṃsāra,
May they join a good family and gain the freedoms and advantages,
Meet the Dharma as soon as they are born,
And encounter a pure, authentic spiritual teacher.
May they be rich with the treasures of nobility
And possess all the splendid qualities of the higher realms.
May they put an end to further rebirth in conditioned existence
And attain the level from which regression is impossible.
May I bring sentient beings, my past mothers,
To the state of enlightenment.
And until Tsultrim Chökyi Drolma 1
Attains the sacred state of awakening,
May I too remain here in saṃsāra,
And strive untiringly to be of benefit.
Untouched by the flaws of worldly existence,
May my activity be as vast as space itself.
Through the blessings of the root and lineage gurus,
And the power and truth of the victors and their heirs,
May all these points of aspiration
Be swiftly and effortlessly accomplished.
May the seed of liberation be planted in all who see me,
Hear me, think of me, or come in contact with me in any way.
May the shoots of their awakening develop and mature
And yield the excellent fruit of the four kāyas.