Calling the Guru from Afar
In the space above the crown of my head,
In the centre of a white lotus and moon,
Is my own gracious root guru
In the form of paṇḍita Vimalamitra—
Bright green, with one face and two hands,
And wearing the costume of a paṇḍita.
His hands rest in equanimity and hold a long-life vase,
And there is a white syllable A at the tip of his nose,
From which light and rays of light shine forth.
He is the very embodiment of all sources of refuge,
Clearly and directly present before me.
Watch over me! Watch over me! O guru, watch over me!
Essence and epitome of the Three Jewels,
Embodiment of the oceanic Three Roots,
Mañjuśrīmitra,
In your compassion, gaze from the invisible sphere
And lovingly consider me, fortunate as I am.
Shower down a rain of vajra-like wisdom.
Watch over me! Watch over me! O guru, watch over me!
The youthful vase body of intrinsic awareness,
Remaining forever beyond union and separation,
The essence of the indivisible three kāyas,
Ösal Trulpé Dorje, 1
From the expanse of indivisible space and awareness,
Lovingly consider me, fortunate as I am.
Watch over me! Watch over me! O guru, watch over me!
From the dharmakāya expanse of great bliss,
The infinite purity of appearance and existence,
Representative of the one born from a lotus, 2
Ösal Dongak Lingpa, 3
Lovingly consider me, fortunate as I am.
Watch over me! Watch over me! O guru, watch over me!
In emanated pure realms, wherever they might be,
The sovereign of the teachings in their entirety,
Guru who holds the seven forms of transmission,
Jamyang Khyentse Wangpo,
In your compassion, from which there is no separation,
Lovingly consider me, fortunate as I am.
Watch over me! Watch over me! O guru, watch over me!
In the palace of dharmadhātu at my heart,
The illusory embodiment of clear light,
The master of knowledge, love and capacity,
Jamyang Lodrö Gyatso, 4
Look now from the space of realized intent.
Lovingly consider me, fortunate as I am.
Watch over me! Watch over me! O guru, watch over me!
Inspire me to blend my mindstream with the Dharma.
Inspire me to purify negative actions, misdeeds and obscurations.
Inspire me to pacify obstacles and adversity.
Inspire me to keep my vows and commitments pure.
Inspire me to complete the two stages. 5
Inspire me to perfect the strength of realization.
Inspire me to attain the level of the three kāyas.
From the three seed-syllables at the guru’s three centres,
Rays of white, red and blue light stream forth.
They dissolve into me in stages and all at once,
Bestowing empowerment, purifying obscurations, and granting attainments.
The guru melts into light and dissolves into me.
Without any thought associated with the three times,
My mind settles into the dharmadhātu’s empty luminosity,
Beyond transition or change, illumination or tenebrity,
As I freely let go in the natural ease of inactivity.