Swift Bestowal of Blessings A Sādhana of Peaceful Mañjuśrī
The ground is primordially pure space, the youthful vase body;
Its radiant energy is unceasing—my own awareness, bodhicitta,
Is of the nature of the hero Mañjuśrī on an ultimate level.
In recognition of this, my own true essence, I take refuge.
In the illusory city of incidental deluded perception,
Beings roam endlessly through clinging to things as real—
To bring them all to the dharmakāya’s primordial freedom,
I generate bodhicitta in the great settling beyond extremes.
Saṃsāra is entirely positive, and nirvāṇa is wholly good too,
In the All Good expanse, there’s no birth, no death, no pleasure and no pain.
Through the power of the truth of the unchanging dharmatā,
Let the inspiration to realize true reality descend upon us.
In an experience of reality, primordial purity and profound luminosity,
The spontaneously present play of awareness dawns as great compassion.
Inseparable unity, extending everywhere, is the vajra of space,
Which fully emerges in apparent form as a symbolic mudrā:
Mañjughoṣa, embodiment of the wisdom of all the buddhas.
He is peaceful, smiling, graced with signs and marks, and youthful.
He has the glow of twilit clouds and is adorned with jewels and silks.
In his right hand he holds aloft and brandishes the sword of wisdom,
In his left he holds of volume of text that rests upon an utpala.
He is seated on a water-born lotus resting upon a full moon disc
With his two legs crossed in a posture of majestic ease.
Within each and every pore of his body
Self-arisen tantric maṇḍalas appear in countless number.
Above, below and all around, amidst an expanse of rainbow light,
The root and lineage gurus, ḍākinīs and oath-bound guardians
Arise as a spontaneous adornment, like specks of dust in a sunbeam.
Oṃ. Through the force of Atiyoga, empty of existence and non-existence,
The samaya connection is always fully present, like space.
O sugata of perfect bliss, turn your attention toward me.
Youthful Mañjuśrī, you who embody fortune and splendour,
From the natural and unelaborated palace of dharmatā,
Embodiment of self-arisen compassion, transcendent conqueror,
In order to dispel the darkness of unknowing and conceptuality,
I invite you in your self-arisen wisdom form: come now, I pray.
In order to rid my mind of attachment to good and bad
With regard to the samaya- and wisdom-beings,
Remain here, you who embodies wisdom, love and power,
Transcendent conqueror, steadfast and indivisibly united, I pray.
The wisdom deity may arise from the expanse of inner luminosity
And appear as an arrangement of face, hands and adornments,
But it is the manifestation of mind’s own utter purity.
In recognition of my very essence, I offer symbolic homage.
All phenomena, represented by the objects of sensory cognition,
Are pure from the beginning and perfect in this mudrā of offering.
Without attachment, and through the magic of king-like concentration,
I make these perpetual offerings that fill the dharmadhātu entirely.
Through the secret path of instructions that do not arise from scripture,
You seized the stronghold of a fruition that does not derive from causes,
The supreme, primordial buddhahood that does not originate in mind—
Sovereign of all buddha families, to you I offer homage and praise.
With sights, sounds and mind experienced as deity, mantra and dharmatā,
Deity, mantra and dharmatā as the great perfection of awareness-emptiness,
And awareness-emptiness as my own cognizance, all-penetrating and beyond limits—
In a state that is undistracted and free of grasping, I recite the secret mantra:
oṃ arapacana dhīḥ
In the extensive bandha (skullcup) of the unborn dharmadhātu
All that manifests from the ground—saṃsāric and nirvāṇic phenomena—is arranged as a feast.
It is blessed with the view of my own untainted awareness
And becomes an object of delight to the deities who receive it.
Actual gifts of food and drink and other substances
Are increased through the sky-treasury absorption,
To fill the entire expanse of boundless space. 1
To the infinite Three Roots deities, I present this offering.
Failing to hold to the natural state of all-penetrating awareness,
And overpowered by attachment to notions of “I” and “me”,
I have transgressed the vajra command that is not to be taken lightly—
Whatever faults I have committed I hereby acknowledge and confess.
I shall not reject thoughts that involve clinging to dualistic ideas,
Nor subject them to the path of transformation,
Rather, I shall seal them with the sharp blade of naturally flowing awareness,
Within the vast primordial purity in which phenomena are exhausted.
All the limitless dharma systems of ground, path and fruition
Are like a wisdom symphony of deity, mantra and dharmatā.
Uncreated and always present, may these clouds of perfection
Fulfil our solemn pledges to the victorious ones throughout space.
To the maṇḍala of deities within my own body that is utterly pure,
I present this offering of immaculate nectar;
Through this, may I perfect the four visions and ripen as the light body of great transference,
And may all beings attain awakening all together in a single maṇḍala.
May the guests for the remainder, thoughts that arise when the stronghold
Is not secured within the precious expansive sphere of spontaneous presence,
Accept this remainder torma of faith and compassion,
And extend the festival of benefit and happiness for the teachings and beings.
As represented by this, may all virtues accumulated in the past, present and future,
Ripen fully in the mindstreams of all beings throughout the whole of space,
So that they may all awaken in the youthful vase body
Complete with its six special features of inner luminosity. 2
The pure dharmakāya view, settled in a state beyond the ordinary mind,
The perfect sambhogakāya meditation, with the full measure of direct experience,
And the mature nirmāṇakāya conduct, in which space and awareness are indivisible—
May all be auspicious for the effortless accomplishment of these three kāyas.