Prayer for the Flourishing of the Dzogchen Teachings of Sogyal Rinpoche, the Incarnation of Lerab Lingpa
Emaho! Beginningless and endless is the expanse that is free from the duality of samsara and nirvana,
Self-arising primordial purity, the all-pervading great sphere of reality—
You are the body of unchanging clear light, endowed with three unique aspects, 1
Samantabhadra, who transcends all activity, to you we pray!
Inspire us with your blessings so that we realize the natural state of Dzogpachenpo!
Within this unmoving space shines the unceasing radiance
Of spontaneous presence, the arisings of interdependence.
By realizing them all to be the appearances of the Ground, at that very instant
You attain perfect enlightenment, with its six special features.
To you, the primordial buddha Samantabhadra, we pray!
Inspire us with your blessings so that we realize the natural state of Dzogpachenpo!
From your wisdom mind, all-pervading just like space,
Dawns the play of compassion, omnipresent, in forms of every kind,
Opening limitless doors to the Dharma, profound and vast,
And performing the wondrous enlightened actions that tame each according to their needs.
To all these appearances of the self-arisen vajra, we pray!
Inspire us with your blessings so that we realize the natural state of Dzogpachenpo!
The enlightened mind transcends concepts and never knows transition or change,
Yet still, like stars and planets reflected on the limpid surface of a lake,
In the single vision of non-duality, there appear the countless forms
Of the buddhas of the five families, the three bodhisattva lords,
And all the gatherings of naturally appearing, self-arising emanations.
To you we pray: transform our minds, our very being, with your grace!
Inspire us with your blessings so that we realize the natural state of Dzogpachenpo!
Garab Dorjé and Mañjuśrīmitra,
Śrī Siṃha, Jñānasūtra and Vimalamitra,
Guru Tsokyé Dorjé, ‘the Lake-born Vajra,’ whose kindness is beyond compare,
All you vidyādhara gurus in the three transmission lineages,
And the very embodiment of all sources of refuge, our root lama,
To you we pray: transform our minds, our very being, with your grace!
Inspire us with your blessings so that we realize the natural state of Dzogpachenpo!
In this time of turmoil, you are our supreme guide, King of the Śākyas.
Now that the warm breath of your teachings has still not evaporated,
And the Vajrayāna teachings remain in this age of good fortune,
May the teachings of the Ancient Translation school,
Passed down through the kindness of Śāntarakṣita, Padmasambhava, Trisong Detsen and the emanated translators and scholars,
Never wane, but like the sun high up in the sky,
May they shine and spread and flourish far and wide!
The very heart of the Ngagyur Nyingma teachings is the Dzogpachenpo,
The natural state of the sugatagarbha, just as it is,
Revealed directly through this supreme, unerring path,
Spoken spontaneously by the Lake-born Vajra, Guru Rinpoche.
May the teachings and practice of this Clear Light Vajra Essence
Blaze up and spread to every land!
One who holds the lineage of these Ancient Translation teachings is the incarnation of Lerab Lingpa,
Whose manner of teaching and practice, of study, contemplation and meditation, is full of vigour and energy.
May the masters and disciples who maintain this very tradition
Receive the actual blessings of the lamas of the three transmissions.
Then may our minds instinctively turn away from the eight worldly concerns,
And, with humility, contentment and integrity,
By emulating the lives of the great masters of the past,
As the lovely orchard of the Dzogchen teachings bursts into bloom,
May we be infused with their blessings, so that we can pick and enjoy its inmost fruit!
As for the supreme being Sogyal Rinpoche, who upholds the teachings here,
May his merit (Sönam) remain forever stable as a mountain,
May his life remain forever firm within the vajra ground,
And, blessed by those who have attained the power of longevity,
May he raise the victory banner (Gyaltsen) of the teachings to the very summit of existence,
And may his teachings remain for ages to come, spreading forever further and further!