Treasury of Supreme Blessings: A Guru Yoga Visualization of the Support for Accumulation Seven-Branch Offering Prayer
Namo guru vajradharāya!
Together with other sentient beings,
I take refuge in the supreme guru.
So that beings may have happiness and conquer suffering,
I shall establish them at the level of buddhahood.
Aḥ. In the space before me, in an expanse of five-coloured light
And upon a lion throne, white lotus, and moon disc
Is my root guru, the Vajradhara
And magnificent buddha Karmapa
Khakhyab Takpai Dorje,
Great vajra holder of the threefold vows.
He is brilliant white and youthful, with a serene smile,
And wears the black hat which has a golden glow.
He is dressed in monastic robes and brocade gown,
And with his two arms crossed at his heart, he holds a vajra and bell.
He is seated in vajra posture, with his two legs crossed,
Ablaze with the resplendence of the signs and marks.
At his crown, upon a lotus and moon-disc seat,
Is the all-pervasive, primordially awakened
Lodrö Thayé, in the form of an old man.
He wears a paṇḍita’s hat and three dharma robes.
His right hand is in dharma-teaching mudrā and his left holds a long-life vase,
And upon blossoming utpala flowers there are a sword and book
And a vajra and bell, all clearly present.
To the right, upon a pile of fine silk cushions,
Is Jamyang Khyentse Wangpo,
With a wrathful smile, paṇḍita’s hat and monk’s robes,
And holding vajra and bell with majestic poise.
To the left, upon a tiger and silken cushions,
Is the great tertön Chokgyur Dechen Lingpa,
With a semi-wrathful demeanour.
His right hand is in the dharma-teaching mudrā and holding a nāga tree,
The top of which is adorned with a sword and book.
His left hand is in the gesture of equipoise and holds a terma casket.
He wears an undershirt, gown and lower garment,
As well as red upper robe and brocade cloak.
His two feet are in the posture of royal poise.
All have the three seed syllables at their three centres,
From which rays of light pour out,
Inviting wisdom beings, who dissolve into them inseparably,
So that they come to embody every source of refuge.
To the hosts of gurus who embody every source of refuge
I pay homage with the utmost devotion of body, speech mind.
My own body, possessions and accumulated virtues
I present as sublime offerings, outer, inner and secret.
All my misdeeds, downfalls and harmful actions
Accumulated throughout my lives in beginningless saṃsāra, I confess.
From the depths of my heart and without envy, I rejoice
In all the virtuous deeds of the noble ones and ordinary beings.
In accordance with the varied temperaments, capacities and attitudes
Of those to be trained, turn the Wheel of Dharma, I beseech you.
Rūpakāya manifestations intending to pass into nirvāṇa
I pray that you remain forever as protectors for all beings.
Whatever virtues have been, are being, and will be accumulated,
I dedicate toward the attainment of liberation and awakening.
May all sentient beings of the six classes throughout the three realms
Attain, all together, the level of the four kāyas!
Avalokiteśvara, universal embodiment of all the victorious ones,
Rangjung Khakhyab Takpé Dorje,
To you I pray: inspire me with your blessings!
Transmit your wisdom realization directly to me.
Dharma lord, pioneer of the five treasuries of kama and terma,
Pema Garwang Lodrö Thayé,
To you I pray: inspire me with your blessings!
Grant me the attainment of liberating my mind through realization. 1
Dharma lord, sovereign of knowledge, strength and tenfold power,
Jamyang Khyentse Wangpo, possessor of the seven forms of transmission,
To you I pray: inspire me with your blessings!
Give me the power to ripen others’ minds through compassion.
Master of an ocean of Padma’s profound treasures,
Orgyen Chokgyur Dechen Lingpa,
To you I pray: inspire me with your blessings!
Give me the strength to tame the most difficult of beings.
oṃ āḥ vajra mahāguru sarva siddhi hūṃ
To the glorious guru in whom every source of refuge is embodied,
I pray with the utmost devotion of body, speech mind.
Grant the four empowerments and bestow the blessings
Of your secret body, speech and mind this very instant.
The gurus who remain at the periphery
Melt into light and dissolve into the root guru.
And, as the embodiment of all sources of refuge,
He blazes with majestic splendour and blessings.
From the three syllables at the guru’s three centres,
Stream forth rays of white, red and blue light,
Together with flowing nectar and the three syllables.
As they dissolve into me in sequence and all at once,
I receive the four empowerments, the four types of obscuration are purified,
I am empowered to practise the four paths,
I attain the result of the four types of vidyādhara,
And the seeds of the four kāyas are implanted within me.
Finally, the guru is greatly delighted,
Melts into light, and dissolves into me.
And I rest in my own awareness, the genuine nature,
Mahāmudrā, beyond ordinary thought and expression.
By this virtue, may all sentient beings
Be liberated through the path of the guru.
May auspiciousness reign, so that the protector may guide all beings
And the twofold aim may be spontaneously accomplished!