Concise Offering of the Body From the Root Text of the Heart Accomplishment of the Guru Tukdrup, The Essential Manual of Oral Instructions (Shaldam Nyingjang) Actual Offering of the Body
Namo.
I, along with all other beings,
Take refuge in the three roots.
I will train in offering the body
So as to awaken for the benefit of all.
Phaṭ! My uncontrived mind appears as the wrathful black ḍākinī.
She leaves my body, shooting through the pathway of the brahma-aperture and far into the sky.
Within the sky-like expanse of luminosity
Awareness naturally appears as the mudrā.
With the vajra-cleaver in her right hand
She chops my body into pieces
And heaps them into a skull-cup the size of the billionfold universe,
Where they gather and transform into an oceanic nectar of wisdom;
The steam of which transforms into cloud-banks filled with offerings
To delight the five senses, increasing to fill the entire sky;
These substances of uncontaminated bliss
Become an ornament beyond expansion and reduction.
Oṃ āḥ hūṃ.
Phaṭ! Absolutely everything—the environment and those whose who inhabit it—
Has only ever been sealed as complete liberation.
From within this magical play of luminosity
Appear both saṃsāra and nirvāṇa, filled with guests
Who pervade every direction all around, above and below.
The realization which lies beyond coming and going
Unfolds in vast measure, and all is realized to be of a single taste.
Within that realization I offer to the oceanic three precious ones and three roots;
I offer to appease the dharma guardians and purify broken samaya;
I offer to clear my karmic debts and appease the troublemakers to whom I’m indebted;
And finally out of compassion, I offer this nectar to all other sentient beings.
Through this offering of uncontaminated nectar,
May the four guests be pleased and satisfied;
And the accumulation of merit spontaneously perfected;
May the wisdom of natural luminosity effortlessly arise;
And may all render evident the primordial, natural state,
Which lies beyond the concepts of the three times.
Phaṭ!