A Shower of Blessings A Guru Yoga Practice to Accompany the Seven-Line Prayer
Āḥ! I am in my ordinary form; before me, in the sky
Appears Oḍḍiyāna, and the immaculate Dhanakośa lake,
Deep and full of water with eight kinds of purity.
In its centre you dwell, on a jewelled lotus blossom, its petals open wide:
All sources of refuge combined, Orgyen Dorje Chang,
Ablaze in splendour with the major and minor marks of perfection, and embracing the consort Yeshe Tsogyal.
You hold a vajra in your right hand, a skull cup containing a vase in your left,
Beautiful in all your silk, jewel and bone ornaments.
In an expanse of blue, white, yellow, red and green light, you preside resplendent, radiating great bliss.
All around you, gurus, devas and ḍākinīs gather like clouds.
Pour down your blessings in a rain of compassion: watch over and care for me!
Essence of all buddhas, in your immortal wisdom body,
Now and always, I bow to you with passionate longing and devotion.
My bodies, possessions and all my merit, past, present and future
I visualize as Samantabhadra’s offering clouds, and present them to you.
My harmful actions and downfalls, committed through beginningless time, I confess without exception.
You alone have completely mastered the precious qualities of all the buddhas and bodhisattvas,
And with all my heart I rejoice at your liberating life story.
With total trust I pray to you,
And implore you: shower down a great rain of Dharma, profound and vast.
Gathering all the actual merit of myself and others,
For as long as these infinite realms of living beings remain
I shall follow your example, Lord,
And dedicate it all to guiding beings as limitless as space.
You are all my sources of refuge in one, a great treasure of wisdom and love,
Our precious, our greatest, protection in this dark age, the dregs of time.
Tormented and drained by the five kinds of degeneration, when I call on you
In desperate yearning, look upon your child with all the love of your wisdom mind.
Let the power of your compassion burst out from your vast expanse of realization,
And flood my devoted heart with your blessing.
Quickly show me the signs and marks of attainment,
And grant me siddhis, ordinary and supreme.
Hūṃ! In the north-west of the land of Oḍḍiyāna,
In the heart of a lotus flower,
Endowed with the most marvellous attainments,
You are renowned as the Lotus-born,
Surrounded by many hosts of ḍākinīs.
Following in your footsteps
I pray to you: come and bless me with your grace!
Guru padma siddhi hūṃ
oṃ āḥ hūṃ vajra guru padma siddhi hūṃ
From the three syllables oṃ āḥ hūṃ at the three centres of the guru,
White, red and blue rays of light strike out
And dissolve into my own three centres, purifying the obscurations
Of my body, speech and mind, and transforming them into vajra body, speech and mind.
Finally, the guru and his retinue melt into light
And into a red and white bindu marked with hūṃ,
That dissolves into my heart, through which the guru’s wisdom mind
And my own mind merge inseparably, and so I abide in the ever-present dharmakāya.
a āḥ