Bestowal of Wish-Fulfilling Treasure A Prayer to the Lineage of Könchok Chidü
Guru padma siddhi hūṃ hrīḥ
Primordially awakened, unelaborate great bliss—
Samantabhadra-Amitābha, to you I pray.
Great all-pervading treasury of boundless compassion—
Supreme Ārya King of Space, 1 to you I pray.
Single embodiment of all the victorious one’s wisdom and activity—
Buddha Padmasambhava, to you I pray.
Queen of the dharmadhātu realm of natural great bliss—
Yeshe Tsogyal, at your feet I pray.
Embodiment of immaculate and extensive clear light—
Rigdzin Jatsön Nyingpo, 2 to you I pray.
Splendid master of unconstrained, uninhibited conduct—
Rigdzin Düdul Dorje, 3 to you I pray.
Bodhisattva at the end of the continuum, protector of beings—
Rigdzin Longsal Nyingpo, 4 to you I pray.
Illusory play of Samantabhadra, universal splendour of existence and peace—
Pema Dechen Lingpa, 5 to you I pray.
Tamer of beings in this decadent age with the activity of the victors—
Rigdzin Tsewang Norbu, to you I pray.
All-knowing emanation of the protector of the Land of Snows—
Kagyü Trinlé Shingta, 6 to you I pray.
Padma’s representative, tamer of beings and holder of vidyā-mantras—
Dorje Drakpo Tsal, 7 to you I pray.
Great lord of the tenth bhūmi and holder of two supreme prophecies—
Pema Nyinjé Wangpo, 8 to you I pray.
Emanation of Vairotsana and recipient of sublime authoritative transmissions—
Pema Garwang Tsal, 9 to you I pray.
Emanation of Tri Songdetsen and sovereign of treasure-revealers— 10
Jamyang Khyentse Wangpo, to you I pray.
Chökyi Dorje, 11 Chökyi Gyatso, 12
Pema Vijaya 13 and noble Lodrö Gyatso, 14
You who kindly mature and liberate my mind,
Root guru, the mere thought of whom suffices, to you I pray.
Supreme among the oceanic maṇḍalas of yidam deities—
Peaceful and wrathful gurus, to you I pray.
Awesome embodiment of all the ḍākinīs of the three abodes—
Ḍākiṇī Siṃhamukhā, to you I pray.
Through the power of praying single-pointedly in this way
To the root and lineage gurus, yidams and ḍākinīs
Of the Könchok Chidü guru sādhana, may I, a yogi,
From this moment on, throughout all my future lives,
Have faith, devotion, intelligence and trust in karmic consequences.
May I be guided by the sublime guru, receive all empowerments and instructions,
Maintain pure samaya and develop all the qualities of generation and perfection.
May I become a guide who leads onto the path of liberation
All those beings who see me, hear me, think of me, or come into contact with me in any way.
Having attained my own ultimate aim, liberation in dharmakāya,
May I continually work for others’ sake through the nirmāṇakāya,
Guiding beings everywhere throughout the far reaches of space,
And thus may I become the equal of protector Amitābha himself.