The Liberating Guide A Prayer to Gyalwa Yangönpa
Homage to the compassionate guru!
With great renunciation, you cast aside conditioned existence.
You were guided your teacher, a virtuous spiritual friend,
And abandoned all mental afflictions and defilements—
Magnificent arhat, ‘foe destroyer’, at your feet I pray.
As your wisdom mind filled with altruism and bodhicitta,
Your mastery of cherishing others above yourself meant that
You would not hesitate to sacrifice your own life for beings’s sake—
Magnificent bodhisattva, heir of the victorious ones, to you I pray.
The four empowerments refined the four aspects of your being,
And you guarded the samaya as dearly as your own life-force,
So that self and other, world and inhabitants, arose as the four maṇḍalas—
Magnificent Vajradhara, ‘bearer of the adamantine sceptre’, to you I pray.
Outwardly you uphold the Vinaya conduct of a śrāvaka disciple,
Inwardly you possess the liberating recognition of all beings as parents,
Secretly you are the embodiment of great, co-emergent vajra bliss—
Magnificent upholder of the three sets of vows, to you I pray.
In your wisdom you directly perceive all knowable phenomena,
In your love, you would happily brave the unbearable fires of hell,
In your power, you destroy hosts of outer, inner and secret demons—
Magnificent face and embodiment of the three families, to you I pray.
Among hosts of learned scholars your courageous eloquence prevails,
Among all the adepts and yogins, you are the most resplendent,
Your renown and reputation for noble deeds is far-reaching—
Gyaltsen Palzang, ‘splendid banner of victory’, at your feet I pray.
Having transcended foolish meditation and speculative analysis,
You gained perfect realization of the four types of mudrā,
Releasing the knots in your channels as you traversed paths and stages—
Magnificent and mighty lord among yogins, to you I pray.
Through the force of my unshakeable confidence in you,
I reject feigned expression and pray from the depths of my heart.
Through this may I be inspired with your blessings
To accomplish every aspect of your fully liberated life.