Spontaneous Song of the Genuine Nature A Prayer of Calling the Guru from Afar
The essence, never changing, the natural, unelaborated condition,
Primordially pure, profoundly luminous—you who dwell in the youthful vase body,
Dharmakāya guru Yeshe Dorje, care for me!
Inspire me to gain the vast assurance of the view.
The nature, unceasing, the maṇḍala gathering of the union of luminosity—
You who dwell in the spontaneously perfect display complete with the five certainties,
Saṃbhogakāya guru Dechen Dorje, care for me!
Inspire me to perfect the great strength of meditation.
The compassion, unlimited, wisdom that is free from extremes—
You who dwell in the essence of all-pervasive, naked awareness and emptiness,
Nirmāṇakāya guru Drodül Lingpa, care for me!
Inspire me to master the great enhancement of action.
The primordial ground of self-awareness is unmoving and unchanging.
Whatever arises as the play of dharmakāya is neither good nor bad.
Since this present awareness is the actual buddha,
I find the guru of openness and contentment within my heart.
When I realise that this genuine mind is the very nature of the guru,
There is no need for attached and grasping prayers or artificial complaints.
By relaxing in uncontrived awareness, the free and open natural state,
I obtain the blessing of the aimless self-liberation of whatever arises.
Buddhahood is not attained by fabricated dharmas;
Speculative meditation, fabricated by the intellect, is the deceiving enemy.
Now clinging to style and manner is destroyed with crazy abandon.
Let this life be spent in this state of uninhibited naked ease.
Joyful in all action, the Dzogchen yogi,
Happy in any company, child of the lineage of Padmākara,
Lord who has no peer, great treasure-revealing guru,
Dharma without equal, heart-essence of the ḍākinīs.
Having naturally purified the great delusion, the heart’s darkness,
The radiant light of the unobscured sun continuously arises.
This good fortune is the kindness of the guru, my only father and mother.
Guru of unrepayable kindness, I only remember you!