Light of Compassion A Prayer to the Wisdom Ḍākinīs
Within the wisdom-space of the Vajra Queen, the dharmadhātu,
From garlands of clouds of the bliss-empty magical net,
Your lightning dance of blessings, siddhis, and activities
Showers us with goodness and happiness—to you ḍākinīs I pray!
As Gaṅgādevī in the presence of the Sage, 1
And Sarasvatī, vajra speech of all buddhas,
Delighting your Guru, you compiled the Secret Mantra’s teachings.
Lady Yeshé Tsogyal, to you I pray!
Swift One—activity of all the buddhas—
Renowned heroine—liberator of the hard-to-tame— 2
Mother of all Victors, Umbrella 3 over existence and peace,
Noble Lady Tārā, to you I pray!
You are Samantabhadrī, mother of space, perfection of the three doors of liberation,
The five great mothers of the five wisdom expanses and five families,
And Krodhikālī, empress of the ḍākinīs of the three abodes,
Dhātviśvarī Vajravārāhī, to you I pray!
Your vajra-form of great bliss, utterly unchanging,
Takes the guise of Nateśvara’s consort, lady of pleasure,
Queen of Siddhis, chief amongst Uḍḍiyāna’s ḍākinīs,
Lady Guhyajñānā, to you I pray!
Ḍākinī—single essence with myriad displays,
Ultimate, co-emergent wisdom-space,
Vast, pervasive equality permeating all of saṃsāra and nirvāṇa—
Never parting from this essence, to you I pray!
By purifying our minds through the path of renunciation and weariness,
Through faith, devotion and diligence, may we perfect the awakened conduct.
Especially, through the profound, direct path of ripening and liberation,
May we enjoy the vajra citadel of unified great bliss!
Perfecting the three conducts, the immediate cause, 4
May I bind the three blazes of the prāṇa-mind in the central channel, 5
And through three gatherings may the two benefits be spontaneously accomplished. 6
Thus may I gain the same fortune as the ḍākinīs of the three places.
In all my future lives, O wisdom ḍākinīs,
Take me under your care! Through the supreme Vajrayāna,
The innate, secret treasury that yields all to be desired,
May I awaken, merging indivisibly with the wisdom bindu!