The Swift Infusion of Blessings A Lament and Prayer to Invoke the Wisdom Mind of Khenchen Vāgindra on the Occasion of His Passing into the Great Peace of the Dharmadhātu
Namo guru!
Long ago you found perfect freedom and awakening,
Yet still out of exceptional love for beings to be trained
You magically appear in the form of a spiritual friend
And greatly benefit the teachings and beings—to you I pray.
Lord of Secrets, embodiment of all the buddhas’ power and strength,
In the guise of a saffron-robed monk for these degenerate times,
An adornment on the crown of myriad vajra holders of the triple vows—
Ngawang Samten Lodrö, to you I pray.
Entirely without equal, you raised aloft in a hundred directions
The victory banner of the teachings of the profound, secret oral transmission 1
From Tsarpa, Lord of Dharma and master of the enemy of time 2 —
Khamtön Sangye Gyatso, to you I pray.
With fiery tongues of power, strength and capacity
You utterly incinerate the hosts of unruly spirits,
Naturally arisen great defender of teachings and beings,
All-pervasive lord, glorious guru, to you I pray.
Precious guru, chief of oceanic maṇḍalas,
You are none other than the heroic Mañjuśrī,
Wise, powerful and caring in your supreme vajra form
That could never undergo birth or death.
Yet, as a means to counteract our impressions of endurance,
You have displayed the absorption of form into basic space.
And now, protectorless, I wander alone in delusion’s darkness.
Look upon me with compassion, O guru: care for me!
When a father does not aid a child in distress,
Who else will assist in the elimination of faults?
Alas and alack! O guru Vajradhara,
From the depths of my heart, I pray to you.
Let your cloud-like emanations gather in the sky of dharmadhātu
And rain down the blessings of your secret body, speech and mind.
Through this, may my own character ripen as the three secrets
And bring forth the fine crop of accomplishing the guru’s four kāyas.
Perfectly reveal infinite emanations according to disciples’ needs,
To accomplish vast waves of activity on behalf of the teachings and beings.
May I and all your other subjects perfectly maintain purest samaya
And may we never ever part from you, the most sublime of gurus.