The Indestructible Vajra Garland An Aspiration Prayer for the Lives of the Supreme Holders of the Non-Sectarian Teachings
Oṃ svasti siddhi bhavatu!
Unchanging Light 1 , Lord of Boundless Life 2 and the rest—
By the truth of these conquerors throughout the ten directions and three times,
May the lives of the glorious gurus, who hold the Buddha's teaching,
Remain secure and may their enlightened activities increase and spread!
The three piṭakas and the nine successive vehicles—
By the truth of the holy Dharma free from attachment,
May the lives of the glorious gurus, who are the source of supreme Dharma,
Remain secure and may their enlightened activities increase and spread!
The noble community of the conqueror's heirs, the bodhisattvas, the śrāvakas and pratyekabuddhas—
By the truth of the Sangha whose aspiration is unswerving,
May the lives of the glorious gurus, who are the guides of the supreme community,
Remain secure and may their enlightened activities increase and spread!
The Lotus Born Vajra, Vimalamitra and the rest—
Through the blessings of the Vidyādharas, the root and lineage masters,
May the lives of the glorious gurus, who are the supreme guides for beings,
Remain secure and may their enlightened activities increase and spread!
The maṇḍala of the five families who destroy the māra of the Lord of Death,
And the other yidam deities of the four and six classes of tantra—through your compassion,
May the lives of the glorious gurus, who are the lords of the maṇḍala,
Remain secure and may their enlightened activities increase and spread!
Through the capacity and power of the ḍākinīs of the three places and the Dharma Protectors,
The Wish fulfilling Wheel 3 , queen of accomplishment, and the rest,
May the lives of the glorious gurus, who delight in the play of great bliss,
Remain secure and may their enlightened activities increase and spread!
With their perfect qualities, those present at birth and those acquired in this life,
They illuminate the Conqueror's teachings—masters of exposition, debate and composition,
May the lives of the holders of the Dharma of transmission , foremost among scholars,
Remain secure and may their enlightened activities increase and spread!
Those who keep pure samaya, take the practice to heart,
And see the nature of phenomena are like adornments on the crowns of all, even the gods—
May the lives of these holders of the Dharma of realisation , lords among yogis,
Remain secure and may their enlightened activities increase and spread!
With the stable ground of discipline , the clear light of samādhi ,
And the strength of wisdom , they are rich with the wealth of the Noble Ones.
Lamps of the Muni's teachings, sources of refuge for beings,
May their lives remain secure and their enlightened activities increase and spread!
Through listening they liberated their minds, through contemplation they have clear discernment,
And through meditation they have realised reality—now they strive for others' benefit,
As wise, compassionate and powerful holders of the teachings of the Conqueror,
May their lives remain secure and their enlightened activities increase and spread!
Having practiced the various stages of the vehicles, in accord with their capacity,
They always act appropriately—
May the lives of these great, non-sectarian masters, who reside in all directions,
Remain secure and may their enlightened activities increase and spread!
May all the holders of the teachings be forever in agreement,
And without any bias or prejudice towards the Buddha's teachings,
As they guard them, as if they were their own, with vast pure perception,
And may their lives remain secure and their enlightened activities increase and spread!
May all those who are connected to us, in all future lives,
Attain the seven qualities of the higher realms,
Such as good health, indestructible vajra life and a beautiful form,
And become like great suns illuminating all the Buddha's teachings!
May all obstacles to our life and liberation be pacified,
May we live for hundreds of years and see hundreds of teachers,
And through the three superior trainings, may we always uphold the precious teachings of the Conqueror,
For as long as space exists, and for the benefit of others!
May the glorious gurus, who are the very face and embodiment of all the buddhas,
And all the holders of the non-sectarian teachings live long,
And by turning the wheel of the Dharma without interruption,
May they always illuminate the three worlds, now and forever!