Verses of Aspiration to Recite While Prostrating
Through offering prostration before the supreme Three Jewels,
May my own and all other beings’ misdeeds and obscurations be purified!
May joining the palms of my two hands together,
Cause us to gain the perfect unity of skilful means and wisdom!
May joining my hands at the crown of my head,
Cause us to travel to the heaven of Akaniṣṭha!
May joining my hands at my forehead,
Cause all harmful actions and obscurations of the body be purified!
May joining my hands to the level of my throat,
Cause all harmful actions and obscurations of speech to be purified!
May joining my hands at the region of my heart,
Cause all harmful actions and obscurations of mind to be purified!
May drawing apart my two hands once again,
Cause the two form kāyas to act for beings’ benefit!
May touching my two knees to the ground,
Cause the lower realms of saṃsāra to be liberated!
May touching the ten fingers of my two hands to the ground,
Cause us all to traverse the ten stages and five paths!
May touching my forehead to the ground
Cause us all to attain the eleventh bhūmi of Universal Radiance!
May extending and contracting my four limbs,
Cause us to spontaneously accomplish the four types of activity!
May extending and contracting all the channels of my body,
Cause all knots in the subtle channels to be released!
May flexing my spine in the centre of my body,
Cause all subtle wind-energies to enter the central channel!
May touching the ground, then rising from it once again,
Ensure that we do not remain in saṃsāra but find the path to freedom!
Thus, through offering a great many prostrations,
May we not remain in peace but guide all beings!
By the power of this virtuous offering of full prostrations,
May we gain the temporary benefits of long-life, good health and prosperity!
When we die, may we be reborn in Sukhāvatī,
And then swiftly attain the level of perfect Buddhahood!
May all sentient beings, our very own parents, be happy!
May all the lower realms be forever empty!
And for all the bodhisattvas, wherever they may be,
May each and every prayer of aspiration be fulfilled!