The Vidyādhara Assembly (Rigdzin Düpa), the Inner Practice from the Heart-Essence of the Vast Expanse I. The Preliminary Activities 1. Taking Refuge 2. Generating the Mind Set Upon Awakening 3. Gathering the Accumulations 4. Giving the Command to Obstructing Forces 5. Visualization of the Protective Circle 6. Invocation of Blessings and Wisdom 7. Blessing the Offerings II. The Main Part 1. The Visualization 2. The Invitation 3. Requesting the Deities to be Seated 4. Symbolic Prostration 5. Offerings 6. Offering Praise and Homage 7. The Mantra Visualization III. The Conclusion: The Stages of the Feast Gathering 1. Blessing the Offering 2. Inviting the Field of Accumulation 3. Offering the First Portion of the Feast Offering 4. The Intermediate Offering: Confession 5. Liberation and Offering 6. Dedicating the Remainder Offering 7. Invoking the Sacred Pledge 8. Invoking the Covenant 9. Maintaining the Relationship with the Tenma Goddesses 20 10. Horse Dance 11. Receiving Accomplishments 12. Confession of Mistakes in Practice 13. Dissolution 14. Dedication 15. Prayer of Auspiciousness
Vajraguru Vidyādharaye!
Namo. I and all infinite sentient beings
Take refuge in the guru, the essence of the Three Jewels,
And the maṇḍala of the ocean of vidyādharas,
With devotion and from the depths of our hearts!
Hoḥ. Having entered this maṇḍala of the vidyādharas,
So that I might liberate, with immeasurable compassion,
All beings of the six realms, my very own parents,
I generate the awakening mind, relative—in aspiration and action—and absolute!
Hoḥ. To the deities who manifest, like bubbles arising from water,
Out of the all-pervading space of wisdom:
With direct perception of awareness, I prostrate;
The increase of visionary experience, I present as offering;
In the full measure of awareness, I confess;
In the exhaustion of phenomenal reality, I rejoice;
From the expanse of ‘great transference’, turn the wheel of Dharma, I implore you.
Remain in the great rainbow body, I pray.
All accumulated merit I dedicate toward the youthful vase body.
Hrīḥ. In this emanated maṇḍala of the environment and beings,
All you malicious and obstructing demonic forces
Take this torma 1 offering and go elsewhere!
Should you dare disobey this command, you’ll be annihilated by the vajra!
Hrīḥ. In the infinite purity of appearance and existence,
Even the names of negative forces and obstacles do not exist.
Yet to prevent harmful influences, the delusions of fleeting thoughts,
I set the boundary in the state of dharmadhātu.
Hūṃ. From the dharmakāya palace of sheer simplicity,
Primordial Buddha Samantabhadra,
Buddhas of the five families with your consorts and emanated retinue—
Gurus of the mind-direct transmission, shower down your blessings!
From the vajra palace of illusory display,
Garab Dorje, Mañjuśrīmitra,
Śrī Siṃha, Jñānasūtra and the rest—
Gurus of the sign transmission, shower down your blessings!
From the nirmāṇakāya palace of disciplining beings,
The eight vidyādharas and the Lotus-Born,
King and subjects—the twenty-five disciples—and the rest,
Gurus of the oral transmission, shower down your blessings!
Cause this maṇḍala to shine in vivid splendour!
Make the accomplishment substances glisten and sparkle!
Kindle great bliss in our body, speech and mind!
Grant us attainments, 2 ordinary and supreme!
oṃ āḥ hūṃ | vidyādhara e ārali pheṃ pheṃ | hūṃ hūṃ hūṃ | hūṃ hūṃ hūṃ | hūṃ hūṃ hūṃ ||
Oṃ āḥ hūṃ. Offering clouds of all that appears and exists
Are blessed as wisdom amṛta,
So that all outer, inner and secret offerings
Become Samantabhadra’s vast, miraculous display.
oṃ vajra-arghaṃ pādyaṃ puṣpe dhūpe āloke gandhe naivedye śabda | sarva-pañca rakta baliṅta mahā-sukha pūjā āḥ hūṃ
Hūṃ. In the unaltered state of awareness, empty yet luminous,
Arises a clear vision 3 of all that appears, all interdependent phenomena.
Spontaneously present and infinitely pure—
The great maṇḍala, spontaneously complete:
The delightful palace, beyond measure,
Is square, with four doors and all other characteristics;
Its symbols, meanings and significance all perfectly complete.
Without outside or inside, it is vast, unimpeded clarity.
In its centre, upon a multicoloured lotus, sun and moon, is a Hūṃ,
Out of which, perfect in the very moment of envisioning,
I arise as the actual presence of all the buddhas—
The Lotus-Born ‘Prevailing Over All That Appears and Exists’.
He has one face and two hands, and is white tinged with red.
As a sign of complete mastery over the three vehicles,
He wears monastic robes, gown and cape.
His right hand wields a five-spoked vajra in the threatening mudrā,
His left holds a skull-cup containing the long-life vase.
Cradled in his left arm is the beautiful goddess, Mandāravā.
On his head he wears the lotus hat,
And he is seated in the graceful posture of royal poise.
Above his head, amidst a shimmering aura of spheres of rainbow light,
Sits Garab Dorje with his saṃbhogakāya adornments,
Brilliant white, holding vajra and bell across his heart,
Above his head is the primordial protector
Samantabhadra, sky-coloured, with his consort.
Around them, on each of the eight lotus petals,
In the midst of five-coloured spheres of light,
Are the eight vidyādharas, adepts of the Awesome Ones,
All in heruka costume,
And playing ḍamaru and bell in their two hands.
In dancing posture, they are united with their consorts.
Those in the cardinal directions are coloured accordingly; those in intermediate directions are dark blue.
They have the nature of the deities of the eight sādhana sections.
All around are the vidyādharas of India and Tibet,
And the twenty-five incarnations—the king and subjects—
In their various appearances and garments,
Performing vajra dances.
Above are the chosen deities, 4 heroic ones and ḍākinīs,
Of the four or six classes of tantra—
All assembled like a mass of sesame seeds.
On the outer walkway are the seventy-five glorious lords,
The twenty-eight īśvarīs and the rest—
All the oath-bound guardians who obey commands, swirling like the wind.
At the four gates are the four great kiṃkara.
Within the play of appearance and emptiness,
They are clear, distinct, and spontaneously present.
Their three centres are marked with the three syllables,
Which have the nature of the three vajras,
From which powerful rays of light stream out, inviting
From the supreme realm of the natural dharmadhātu,
From the emanated realm of Oḍḍiyāna in the west,
From sacred places and lands such as the eight charnel-grounds,
And especially from Cāmaradvīpa 5
And the glorious Copper-Coloured Mountain, 6
The deities of the maṇḍala of Vidyādhara Assembly—
I invite you all to this place! Samāja!
Hūṃ. At the very beginning of this age,
In the north-west of the land of Oḍḍiyāna,
In the heart of a lotus flower,
Endowed with the most marvellous attainments,
You are renowned as the ‘Lotus-born’,
Surrounded by your retinue of many ḍākinīs
And oceanic hosts of vidyādharas and siddhas.
Following in your footsteps, I practise.
Come! Inspire us with your blessings—
Shower down your blessings on this supreme place!
Grant us, supreme practitioners, the four empowerments!
Remove any negativity, obstructing force or disturbance to our practice!
Grant us attainments, ordinary and supreme!
oṃ āḥ hūṃ vajra-guru-padma tötrengtsal | vajra-samāja jaḥ jaḥ
Hūṃ. In this maṇḍala created through skilful means,
All you deities invited from the space of insight— 7
Maṇḍala deities of the vidyādhara masters—
Remain here, delighted, in the state of non-duality.
vajra-samaya tiṣṭha len
Hūṃ. The deity is oneself, oneself the deity.
This naturally arisen, emanated maṇḍala
Has nothing good or bad to accept or reject,
Yet as a sign of interdependence, I offer prostration.
atipu hoḥ | pratīccha hoḥ
Oṃ āḥ hūṃ. The outer and inner, environment and beings, arise as offering clouds:
The five regular offerings and five sensual delights,
Auspicious substances and symbols, seven emblems of royalty,
Medicine, torma and rakta, purely and joyfully offered,
Dancing girls, laughing and moving with seductive grace,
And a hundred thousand consorts of great blissful union.
Offering, offerer and recipients of the offering—
All are purified utterly into the space of wisdom;
This great mudrā of offering,
I offer to you, deities of the Vidyādhara Assembly.
Accept it, and grant empowerments and attainments!
oṃ vajra-arghaṃ pādyaṃ puṣpe dhūpe āloke gandhe naivedye śabda rūpa śabda gandha rāsa sparśa āḥ hūṃ
sarva-pañca baliṅta rakta mahā-sukha dharmadhātu āḥ hūṃ
Hrīḥ! Unaltered simplicity, the dharmakāya guru,
Great blissful saṃbhogakāya guru, Lord of Dharma,
And the nirmāṇakāya guru born from a lotus—
Three-kāya Vajradhara, to you I offer homage and praise!
At Śaṅkarakūṭa you secured attainments, vast and profound.
In the eight charnel grounds you captured the stronghold of realization.
Sovereigns of an infinite ocean of maṇḍalas—
Eight supreme vidyādharas, to you I offer homage and praise!
You course through the vast, expansive sky of realization;
You guide beings through expressions of yogic conduct;
You preserve the vital realization of the wondrous vajra essence—
Twenty-five heirs of the heart—king and subjects—to you I offer homage and praise!
In addition, within this emanated maṇḍala of the vidyādharas,
Deities of the Three Roots, present on account of samaya and compassion,
And protector-messengers manifesting out of wisdom’s all-pervading space—
Deities of the entire maṇḍala, to you I offer homage and praise!
At my heart, upon a lotus, sun and moon,
Is a blue letter hūṃ, around which there revolves
The mantra garland, as fine as if written with a single hair.
Rays of light stream out to purify environment and inhabitants,
And I meditate on the utterly pure maṇḍala of deities.
Until this is actualized, I shall not let go of the practice!
oṃ āḥ hūṃ vajra-guru padma siddhi hūṃ
oṃ āḥ hūṃ vajra-māha-guru sarva siddhi hūṃ
Hūṃ.  From my heart, the syllables raṃ , yaṃ and khaṃ stream out
To purify any faults or defects in the feast offerings.
Oṃ , āḥ and hūṃ transform the offerings into amṛta,
And sensual delights multiply until they are as infinite as space.
raṃ yaṃ khaṃ | oṃ āḥ hūṃ
Hūṃ. From the Unsurpassed, 9 the realm of great bliss,
From the land of Oḍḍiyāna in the west,
And especially from Cāmara’s Glorious Mountain, 10
From the sacred places and lands such as the eight charnel grounds,
All you deities of the Vidyādhara Assembly
Are invited to this feast gathering—come, we pray.
The charnel ground’s hall of gathering is full of joy,
The assembly of ḍākinīs so joyous and inspiring,
The yogins and yoginīs so pure in their samaya,
The sumptuous feast offerings aglow with splendour.
Come, shower down your blessings on this feast!
Grant us attainments, ordinary and supreme!
Hūṃ. Oceans of Three Root deities and vidyādharas,
Ḍākinīs and dharma guardians bound under oath,
We offer you this sumptuous feast of sensual delights.
Grant us attainments, ordinary and supreme!
gaṇacakra pūja khāhi
Hūṃ. Throughout the course of my lives without beginning,
Any transgressions of the root or branch samayas
I have committed since entering the Great Vehicle’s Secret Mantra,
With this feast offering of sensory delights, I now confess!
vajra-samaya āḥ
Hūṃ. Ignorance, karma, afflictions and dualistic grasping,
Together with their creations, ego-clinging and all rudras—
Let them be brought into this form— ṇṛ ṭṛ jaḥ! 11
Let their consciousness enter the dharmadhātu expanse— phaṭ!
And let their body be enjoyed as the feast offering.
rudra sarva hala pañca pūja khāhi
Hūṃ. You who dwell on the periphery of the great maṇḍala,
Īśvarī, kiṃkara and laṅkā spirits,
Accept this remainder torma
And guard us yogins against obstacles to practice!
ucchiṣṭa baliṃ te khāhi
Hūṃ. Rise up, all you deities of the Vidyādhara Assembly!
Take form out of the dharmadhātu! 12
Crush any obstacles to our attainment of awakening!
Halt the decline of the elements in the environment and beings!
Heal any weakness of the channels, wind-energies and authentic presence! 13
And cause our practice to bear fruit!
Hūṃ. Long ago, in the Unsurpassed realm of great bliss,
In places full of joy, like the Three Divine Realms, 14
When the great secret tantras were revealed,
The guardians of the teachings of Vajrayāna
Were assigned places in keeping with their pledges.
Then, in Tibet, the land of snows,
When the master Lotus Skull-Garland 15
Turned the wheel of Secret Mantra Dharma,
He seized the life-force of all major gods and demons
And brought them within his ranks.
Finally, in the pure realm of luminosity,
Within the palace of great bliss,
The vidyādhara Pema Wangchen 16
Was empowered by the Lotus-Born and Drimé Özer 17
With the profound seal of the Vast Expanse. 18
When the ḍākinī of the all-pervading space of wisdom
Entrusted him with the symbolic script to reveal the Luminous Expanse
You, Wild Za ‘Razor of the Life Force’ 19 and the rest,
Took a solemn oath to guard this teaching.
So, accept this offering torma with all its ornaments,
And carry out the four types of enlightened activity!
Hūṃ. You who obey the command of the Awesome One and protect Tibet,
Twelve Tenma Goddesses—mothers and sisters—
Come! Accept this cleansing water of the torma,
And carry out the activities entrusted to you!
mama hrīṃ hrīṃ baliṃ te khāhi
Hūṃ. In this maṇḍala of the vidyādhara buddhas,
All the corrupting spirits of samaya violation
Are held beneath the seal of the nine vehicles.
Let them never rise again!
stvaṃ bhaya nen
Hoḥ. Deities of the maṇḍala of the vidyādharas,
The commitments of approach and accomplishment are fulfilled,
And the dawn of Vajrasattva is breaking.
The time has come to grant accomplishments!
From the maṇḍalas of body, speech and mind,
Inspire us with blessings of the three vajras
Of supreme, secret wisdom that is unconfined.
And grant us all the attainments, ordinary and supreme,
Here and now, this very instant, I pray!
oṃ āḥ hūṃ vajra guru tötrengtsal vajra samaya jaḥ | kāya vāk citta alala siddhi phala hūṃ āḥ
Hūṃ. In the maṇḍala of the Vidyādhara Assembly,
If my offerings were incomplete, my practice inattentive,
Or my meditation drowsy, dull or lifeless,
Pray forgive all such error and confusion.
Hoḥ. Just like bubbles formed out of water,
The deities of the self-emanated maṇḍala
Dissolve into wisdom’s basic space— vajra muḥ!
In post-meditation, everything arises as the deity’s illusory form.
Hoḥ. All sources of virtue accumulated in the three times,
I dedicate as the cause for realizing primordial omniscience.
May I and all those assembled here
Attain enlightenment together, in a single maṇḍala!
Hoḥ. Through the blessing of the lineage of vidyādharas,
The truth of the Three Rare and Sublime Ones,
And the interdependent circumstances of profound Secret Mantra,
May all be auspicious, to pacify the eight fears! 21
May all be auspicious, for extending longevity and merit!
May all be auspicious, to bring perception under our control!
May all be auspicious, to annihilate negative, misleading forces!
With all attachment to perception transformed and perfected as the form of the deity,
All sound purified into the great bliss of mantra,
All thoughts matured into the luminosity of dharmakāya—
May all be auspicious, so that we attain the translucent rainbow body!