The Ultimate, Natural Dispeller of Obstacles
Hūṃ! Out of the unchanging dharmatā—reality itself,
Saṃsāra and nirvāṇa, appearance and existence, naturally arise—
Although we do not realize their nature, great bliss beyond duality,
And instead we cling to them dualistically,
Still, through the samādhi of uncontrived equality,
Let this be dispelled within the great play of non-grasping!
There are five poisons of the ordinary deluded mind,
And great methods for liberating these five poisons—
As they have not strayed from the experience of basic space,
They have always been inseparable and non-dual,
In this non-duality, which is the dharmakāya,
Great bliss beyond conceptual elaboration, let them be averted!
Great ignorance and delusion too
Are the naturally clear mirror-like wisdom.
Let obscurations brought on by attachment to dualistic perception
Be averted in the vajra nature of delusion itself!
Thoughts of hostility and anger too
Are the naturally arisen wisdom of dharmadhātu.
Let torments brought on by attachment to dualistic perception
Be averted in the vajra nature of anger itself!
Thoughts of pride and stubborn arrogance too
Are the naturally arisen wisdom of equality.
Let haughtiness brought on by attachment to dualistic perception
Be averted in the vajra nature of pride itself!
Thoughts of desire and clinging too
Are the naturally arisen wisdom of discernment.
Let restraints brought about by attachment to dualistic perception
Be averted in the vajra nature of desire itself!
Thoughts of rampant jealousy  too
Are the naturally arisen all-accomplishing wisdom.
Let disturbances brought on by attachment to dualistic perception
Be averted in the vajra nature of jealousy itself!
Out of the dharmadhātu, beyond the duality of change and transformation,
Illusory appearances arise magically in all manner of forms.
By perceiving them as distinct, variety is created,
And ignorant beings stray into the belief that things are real.
To free them, victorious buddhas, who have realized equality,
Display a variety of enlightened activities.
Never straying from basic space, all adornments of display
Are the enlightened activity of victorious buddhas.
They are and always have been equality itself.
In this sky-like sphere, beyond acceptance and rejection,
Let all thoughts of dualistic perception be averted!
Hūṃ! I am the holder of vajra-like awareness,
Great embodiment of the buddhas of past, present and future,
Through the inspiration and blessings of naturally arisen realization,
Let all illusory attachments to the reality of saṃsāra and nirvāṇa
Be dispelled within the space that has always been free from conceptual elaboration,
Be dispelled within spontaneously present basic space!
Be dispelled within the state of unified great bliss!
Be dispelled within the great unborn natural state!
Be dispelled within the state beyond union and separation!
Be dispelled within the expanse beyond both arising and ceasing!