Gathering Auspiciousness A Prayer of Aspiration Made in the Presence of the Sacred Mahābodhi Temple and its Imagery, Magadha, Land of the Āryas
Master of the ten powers, all-knowing son of Śuddhodana,
You who are praised as a white lotus among the victorious ones,
Foremost of the two-legged, such as gods and human beings,
Supreme sun, lord of sages, to you I pay homage!
With the roar of a fearless lion, amidst the inconceivable assembly
That includes the supreme pair, 1 seven patriarchs 2 and great elders, 3
Śrāvakas, pratyekabuddhas and bodhisattvas,
You proclaim the Dharma in the divine voice of Brahmā—to you I pay homage!
Your forms are present throughout infinite realms,
Where they converse with hosts of thus-gone buddhas,
And display infinite miracles as they tame in the four ways— 4
Lion of the Śākyas, to you I pay homage!
At this site where you attained perfect awakening,
Upon the fearless lion’s throne, the Vajra Seat,
In the shade of the beautiful bodhi tree,
Siddhārtha, Lord of Sages, to you I pay homage!
Your liberation, which is as vast as space or an ocean,
Would be difficult even for the mind of an Ārya to fathom,
So why exhaust oneself with the smatterings of an undeveloped mind?
Yet, through devoted praise based on partial comprehension,
May I and others in this and all our future lives,
Encounter noble spiritual guides and teachers,
Be accepted by the great all-knowing Sage,
And savour the noble Dharma of the supreme vehicle!
In future, when the invincible Lord Maitreya
Turns the wheel of dharma at the Vajra Seat,
May we attain a prophecy in the very first assembly,
And perfect an ocean of enlightened conduct!
May we always enjoy a free, well-favoured human form and maintain perfect ethical discipline,
And may we master the treasury of the bliss-gone buddhas’ Dharma.
Having become fully awakened upon the vajra seat,
May we liberate beings, who are as innumerable as space is vast!
May the foremost of those gathered here through ties of faith and devotion,
Beings of the six classes, my very own past mothers,
Be freed from the sufferings of saṃsāra and the lower realms,
And take miraculous birth in the blissful realm of Sukhāvatī!
May all be auspicious, so that the lives of the teachers remain firmly rooted,
Dharma patrons enjoy prestigious status and perfect wealth,
Saṅgha communities flourish and expand like a vermilion sea,
And the teachings of the victorious one spread far and wide!