A Beautiful and Wondrous Uḍumbara Garland A Supplication and Summary 1 of the Epic of Padma, The Life and Liberation of the Precious Guru of Uḍḍiyāna
Protector of Unchanging Light, abiding in Great Bliss,
Longevity, Primordial Wisdom, Infinite Array.
At the mere sound of your name, beings are drawn towards awakening.
Dharmakāya Amitābha: homage to you!
King of the five certainties and five buddha families,
You display in our world your command of the ten bhūmis.
Great Compassionate One, you dredge the depths of saṃsāra.
Saṃbhogakāya Avalokiteśvara: homage to you!
Lotus-Born Buddha, amazing and glorious,
With your pristine vajra-body free from birth and death,
You perform the enlightened activity of the Victors of the three times.
Nirmanakāya Padmākara: homage to you!
Naturally arisen truth, sovereign of the five buddha bodies,
Through infinite methods you guide beings to great bliss,
Perfectly accomplishing all of their wishes.
Vajrakāya non-arising and non-ceasing: to you I bow! 2
In the realm of Great Bliss, supreme and magnificent,
Presiding over everything, Protector Amitābha, You assume the fivefold form of the Skull-Garland Buddhas, 3
Granting all bounty, all success and happiness.
Cakravartin, Supreme Excellence: homage to you! [Chapters 1-2]
In infinite worlds – Untainted Realm 4 and others –
You manifest as the Six Teachers, 5 to tame the six classes,
And as the Eight Manifestations, Untainted Speech and Lotus-Birth. 6
Bringing benefit to all, you expound sūtra and tantra: homage to you! [Chapter 3]
You arise as the great Vajradhara, manifest in all five families,
To nurture the teachings of the excellent Secret Mantra.
Through union and liberation, with the taming of Rudra,
You achieve the propagation of the Unsurpassable Yāna: homage to you! [Chapters 4 & 6]
Manifesting as the thousand sons of King Dhṛtarāṣṭra,
You receive empowerment from the yogin Powerful Vajra, 7 Who foretells your awakening in the form of the thousand buddhas. 8
You appear in myriad ways as required for beings’ taming,
Raining down the nectar of the two-fold Dharma: homage to you! [Chapters 7-8]
As Samantadhara, 9 you give the four rivers of empowerment. 10
As the son of Excellent Crown Jewel, 11 you uphold the tradition of Mantra.
You work throughout all ages to tame the kingdom of Meghavat,
Teaching with consummate skill both sūtra and tantra: homage to you! [Chapters 9-10]
There are nine domains in the noble land of Dharma. 12
To the west lies Uḍḍiyāna, source of the secret Mantrayāna.
There, in the Heruka temple, naturally-arisen,
Clouds of ḍākinīs billow around you: homage to you! [Chapter 11-12]
The blind king, crazed by wealth, 13 offers riches and possessions,
And Amitābha sends you forth, his mighty emanation, Directing your attention to three particular situations. 14
At length, on Dhanakośa lake, immaculate and shimmering,
You take birth in the heart of a lotus flower: homage to you! [Chapters 13-14]
Perfecting generosity, King Indrabhūti
Sets sail to find a jewel 15 to benefit beings.
Sailing home, he meets you and asks you to accompany him.
They prepare a golden throne and call you Padmarāja, Lotus King: homage to you! [Chapters 15-18]
A rain of everything desirable falls from wish-fulfilling clouds;
Ḍākinīs honour you, filled with devotion;
Dākinīs of great bliss sing songs of praise at your enthronement
As Nirmāṇakāya and Saṃbhogakāya king: homage to you! [Chapter 19]
Aligning yourself with worldly conventions,
You take as your consort the princess Prabhāvatī,
And you make the whole kingdom splendid and abundant
With wealth and glory, riches and enjoyments: homage to you! [Chapter 20]
As foretold by Buddha Vajrasattva,
Your purpose then requires you to abandon the kingdom
And engage in the practices of yogic discipline.
You create the cause for expulsion from your homeland And depart in search of solitude: homage to you! [Chapter 22]
In the cave in Pañcāla, 16 Guardian of the Buddha’s Teachings,
You accomplish the assembly of the Vajradhātu-Maṇḍala 17 And you meet the deities face to face.
Then, you travel to Śītavana 18 and the Śaṅkarakūṭa Stūpa, 19
And you teach the ḍākinīs the Dharma: homage to you! [Chapter 22]
At the site of Ga’u Shö 20 you practice union and liberation,
Gaining renown as Showa Shönu, The Youthful Who Escapes.
Then, in Varanasi 21 with the sage Arjuna,
You master mathematics and astrology: homage to you! [Chapters 22-23]
In Padmāvatī 22 with the son of Jīvakumāra,
You perfect the far-reaching art of medicine,
And in Rāgala, 23 with Sarvamitra,
You undertake the study of writing and grammar: homage to you! [Chapters 24-25]
From Viśvakarma and other masters,
You learn the skills of craftsmanship and the art of alchemy.
You bring all to completion, feigning study and training,
And become a master in every field of knowledge: homage to you! [Chapter 26]
You receive, from the master Prabhahasti,
All the yoga-tantras, which you practice and accomplish.
Ānanda gives you teachings and bestows your ordination.
Hence your name – Śākya Senge, Lion of the Śākyas: homage to you! [Chapter 26]
You train in the teachings of the Three Turnings,
The excellent edicts of the Conqueror, And also in Secret Mantra’s three outer sections" –
Perfecting, ocean-like, the conduct of the Victors.
Bodhisattva Sumitra: homage to you! [Chapter 27]
You seek clarification from the most learned Ānanda Regarding the two doctrines of the sūtras. 24
At Vedalī, 25 in the charnel ground Perfect in Body ,
You engage, through yogic conduct, in the taming of beings. 26
Renowned Nyima Özer, Rays of the Sun: homage to you! [Chapters 27-29]
In the Akanisṭha heaven, the teacher Samantabhadra
Teaches you the Mind Category of the Great Perfection.
Thus you receive the name of Unsurpassed Vajra Holder
And realize the primordial wisdom of the Dharmakāya: homage to you! [Chapter 30]
In Kashmir, in the charnel ground All-pervading Bliss,
For the hosts of ḍākinīs there, you turn the Wheel of Dharma.
Through compassion in action, you assure the welfare of others.
Renowned Loden Choksé, Wise Seeker of the Sublime: homage to you! [Chapter 30]
From Vajrasattva you receive the Mahāyoga Tantras
And perfect the great resplendence of the Sambhogakāya.
From there you continue your journey to Nepal, Arriving at the charnel ground Spontaneous Mound.
Renowned Sengé Dradok, Lion’s Roar: homage to you! [Chapter 31]
In Spontaneous Present Array, Samantadhara teaches you
The Chiti Tantras of the Great Perfection, and bestows on you his name.
Then you travel to Zahor, to the charnel ground Laṅka Mound.
Renowned Padmasambhava: homage to you! [Chapter 32]
You are present when the amazing emanation Garab Dorjé
Teaches the Dharma to Mañjuśrīmitra.
Together, you receive the Space and Pith Instructions of the Great Perfection.
Lord of the Dharma: homage to you! [Chapter 32]
You reside in Uḍḍiyāna, in the charnel ground Lotus Mound,
And, from the great Kulika 27 you receive the teachings on the Sūtra and the Web of Magical Illusion . 28
Next, you travel to Kothan, to the charnel ground Mound of the World.
Renowned Dorje Drolö, Wild Wrathful Vajra: homage to you! [Chapter 33]
The great Karmendrāṇī 29 , in the sacred place of the ḍākinīs,
Gives the profound initiations that transfer to you All the blessings and power of the Nirmanakāya.
In Ghanavyūha, guided by Supreme Vajra Dharma,
You accomplish completely the four rivers of empowerment: homage to you! [Chapter 34]
In the Golden Land 30 within a solitary cave protected,
Śrī Siṃha gives you empowerment in the display of awareness.
From there, you travel on to the Sāla Lands To the charnel ground Display of Great Mystery.
Renowned Tötreng Tsal, Radiant Garland of Skulls: homage to you! [Chapter 35]
As Avalokiteśvara foretold, you appear as Brahmā
To youthful great Mañjuśrī on the Five Peaked Mountain. 31
There you receive all the astrology tantras,
Thus increasing success and happiness for all the world: homage to you! [Chapter 35]
You travel on to Butcher’s Village, adopt their behaviour, And effectively tame all the citizens who live there.
In the charnel ground Black Heaps 32 you muster hordes of evil spirits,
And furnish them with weapons to protect the sacred Dharma.
Dorjé Drakpo Tsal, Wrathful Vajra Might: homage to you! [Chapter 36]
When the ḍākinīs at Dhanakośa are safely under your control,
You travel to Zahor where you meet with Mandāravā. There, this mother of space all-encompassing
Discovers the flesh of a seven-times Brahmin. 33
Ngotsar Pakyé Nang, Infinite Appearances of Wonder: homage to you! [Chapters 37-38]
Descending from the sky, how compassionately you care for her, This princess renunciant.
Yet king and ministers, driven by wrong views,
Throw you on a fire, which you transform into a lake.
You inspire tremendous faith by means of such a miracle: homage to you! [Chapters 39-41]
The King offers you his kingdom, offers you his daughter, Offers you the flesh of the seven-times Brahmin.
You secure Zahor’s borders and teach The Ocean of Dharma,
The Great Gathering of Transmitted Precepts. 34
Thus ripening and liberating king and subjects: homage to you! [Chapters 42-43]
In the Auspicious Cave of Māratika,
Accepted and blessed by the Lord of Immortality, 35
You accomplish the supreme vajra body of inseparable union.
Great Vidyādhara of Immortality: homage to you! [Chapter 44]
Residing for a while on the slopes of Slate Mountain, 36
You tell Mandhebhadrā of her future lives, And faithfully she gives her body as an offering. Resolute and firm, you establish the Dharma,
Converting Aśoka into a mighty Dharma King.
Bhikṣu Indrasena: homage to you! [Chapter 45]
You journey to Vedalī, to the charnel ground Nine Crowns,
Where, with Nāgārjuna, you reveal the Prajñāpāramitā.
You go to Singhala, 37 to Āryadeva’s miraculous birth place.
Teacher, prophet, you ripen and liberate others: homage to you! [Chapter 46]
Travelling on to Bangala, 38 you tame the haughty king.
Ousting him, you rule in his stead, securing the kingdom.
You prompt Asaṅga and his brother 39 to spread the Abhidharma,
Thus opening the way for the teachings to flourish: homage to you! [Chapter 47]
In the market place of Dhānya 40 you take the name of Ḍombhi.
With the flesh of a seven-times Brahmin you attain great accomplishments.
Tethering the sun in the sky, you ripen the barmaid Vinasā And secure her liberation.
Then you render assistance to the King: homage to you! [Chapter 48]
Returning in haste to Uḍḍiyāna,
You find evil ministers plotting to burn you. You transform their inferno into a lake,
And you inspire the king with tremendous faith. You teach to the crowd The Gathering of Transmitted Precepts, 41
And confer the supreme accomplishments on everyone there: homage to you! [Chapter 49]
Known as Bhikṣu Saukhyadeva, you visit the land of drummers. 42
With your consort Kālasiddhī, you attain accomplishment there.
You nurture the young Hūṃkāra, and bring forth his realization,
Causing the radiance of the Dharma to shine: homage to you! [Chapter 50]
You travel on to the land of Kashmir,
Where you give your blessing to King Dharmāśoka’s daughter. Thus, to the princess Dharmabodhī
The marvellous emanation Vimalamitra is born,
And the Dharma is established within the kingdom: homage to you! [Chapter 50]
You travel to Tamradvīpa, where you use the vidyā-mantra, 43
Ḍākinī Tamer of Māras, 44 to slam five hundred heretics.
In the Golden Land, miraculously you tame the prince and his wife,
Causing the Buddha’s teachings to spread in all directions: homage to you! [Chapter 51]
Further, in Kāmarūpa, and also in Khotan,
In Maru, Aśadruśa, and likewise in Śambala,
In Shang Shung, Persia, Tukhara, Rukma, and beyond,
You cause the supreme teachings to flourish and prosper: homage to you! [Chapter 52]
When the heretic king Nāgaviṣṇu takes control of Bodh Gaya,
You appear as the emanation Saṃvarakālagarbha
And you light a raging fire which burns the heretics to dust. Afterwards you restore everything exactly as before.
Thus, peerless, you augment and expand the teachings: homage to you! [Chapter 52]
In your taming of beings you have many vajra-names,
Manifesting always in whichever way is needed.
You are known as Mighty Lotus Protector of Beings,
As Glorious Protector, and Accomplished Wisdom: homage to you! [Chapter 53]
You are known as Supreme Mighty Lotus, Powerful Ḍākinī,
Protector Virūpa, and Dark Black Conduct,
As Mighty Youthful Garuḍa, and the great Saraha,
And Mighty Lotus King: homage to you! [Chapter 53]
You are known as Lotus Ascetic, Desire Supreme, and Mighty One,
Lotus Protector of Beings, Protector of Enlightened Activity,
Meaningful Lotus Lasso, and Radiant Splendour,
And Padma Ḍombhi: homage to you! [Chapter 53]
You are known as White Lotus, Lotus with Skull-Garland, and as Padma Vajra.
You are known as all these noble ones, your twenty emanations.
In all these forms you shower on us
The profound and secret Dharma: homage to you! [Chapter 53]
You travel to Yangleshö, where, with the consort Śākyadevī,
You attain the supreme level of the Mahāmudrā Vidyādhara.
Conquering every obstacle, you give secret teachings
On eighteen supremely secret treasures: homage to you! [Chapter 54]
In the place known as Hot Valley 45 you tame The Four Great Earth Ladies . 46
You reveal a profound treasure, as foretold by Vajrapāṇi.
King Sūryasiṃha welcomes you, receives you in Bodh Gaya,
Enthroning you as sovereign of the Dharma: homage to you! [Chapter 54]
Trisong Detsen, emanation of Mañjuśrī,
Takes birth in Tibet based on his previous aspirations.
Reaching full maturity, he joins the supreme noble family,
And develops the heartfelt wish to establish the Dharma in Tibet: homage to you! [Chapter 54]
Requesting his subjects to decide on a site,
The King sends the sage known as Birjé to survey the land. His purpose and intent is the construction of a temple.
He invites Śāntarakṣita to come from Zahor
And joyfully he welcomes the great scholar: homage to you! [Chapters 55-57]
Again and again, Śāntarakṣita reminds the king Of the aspirations they made together, lifetimes ago,
And messengers are sent to invite you, the master Padmasambhava.
Compassionately you accept and make your way to Tibet,
Taming countless gods and demons on the way: homage to you! [Chapters 58-60]
Arriving at the Tolung Valley, you conjure the spring at Shongpé Lhachu.
And on the river bank at Surkar 47 you first meet the Dharma King.
His retinue is with him and, when he fails to bow, You sing vajra verses and display wondrous miracles,
Inspiring great faith in his mind: homage to you! [Chapter 61]
Bowing low with devotion, and to show his contrition, The king commands that five stupas be built. 48
Then, you are guided to the construction site of Samyé, 49 Where your lotus-feet are placed upon a golden throne.
In deep veneration the king asks for your blessing
On the land, and with joy you fulfil his request: homage to you! [Chapter 61]
You call for temples in key locations And entrust the nāgas with the protection of Samyé’s wealth.
On the peak of Hepori 50 you drag the haughty spirits there under your command.
You rise into the sky and perform the Vajra Dance. Wherever your dancing shadow falls,
The spirits gather earth and stone To be laid as Samyé’s foundation: homage to you! [Chapter 62]
Samyé’s three storeys and surrounding temples Are a clear representation of our own world-system— Mount Meru in the centre, then the four continents, Subcontinents, the sun and the moon, and everything encircled
By an outer perimeter, a ring of iron mountains.
Samyé is constructed by humans in the daytime and by spirits at night,
And all is accomplished like a magical display: homage to you! [Chapter 62]
At Samyé Chimpu, 51 in your wisdom you tame the nāgas,
Thus forging a connection between nāgas and king. The nāgas, in turn, offer quantities of gold.
Under your guidance, the temple bell is hung, and
You delegate spirits as the monastery’s guards: homage to you! [Chapter 63]
Within five years, Samyé’s construction is completed. Then, together with Śāntarakṣita,
By means of the mighty Vajradhātu-Maṇḍala,
You perform the consecration, tossing multitudes of flowers.
Thus you reveal the amazing wonder that is Samyé: homage to you! [Chapter 64]
Next comes your consecration of the holy sites of Lhasa, Of Tradrug, 52 and other places such as these.
For all who come upon these great sacred places,
Who consider them, praise them, revere or explain them,
The merit of such beings will multiply beyond imagining. Homage, therefore, to these great places! [Chapter 65]
Having successfully turned the Wheel of Dharma,
The two masters announce their return to India,
But the king, heartbroken, begs them to stay,
And in your great kindness you agree to remain: homage to you! [Chapter 66]
The king, a great ruler, establishes the kingdom.
As foretold, he issues invitations To Vairocana, Kawa Paltsek, and Chökro Lui Gyaltsen.
Trained as translators, they become rare scholars,
And they pioneer translations of both sūtra and tantra: homage to you! [Chapter 70]
This gathering of the hundred and eight lotsawas,
The seven chosen ones 53 and the five fully ordained ones –
This marks the first triumph of the Buddha’s teaching,
And plants firm the stake of the Dharma: homage to you! [Chapter 71]
Of all those who leave in search of the Dharma,
Vairocana and Legdrub are the first to reach India.
In Bodhgaya they meet with twenty-five paṇḍitas,
And from them receive the nectar-like teachings: homage to you! [Chapter 72]
Foremost, Vairocana receives from Śrī Siṃha
The profound Mind and Space Sections of the Great Perfection.
He accomplishes ‘swift-footedness’, and makes preparations
To return to Tibet, singing songs of realization: homage to you! [Chapter 73]
In the Land of Sandalwood he keeps the local leaders safe.
He scales treacherous cliffs on his way through Nepal.
Wielding the power of truth, he dispels a terrible blizzard,
And finally finds his way back to Samyé: homage to you! [Chapters 74-75]
The king holds Vairocana in highest esteem,
And from him receives profound teachings. But his ministers are evil and consumed with jealousy.
Fearing a murder plot against Vairocana, The king himself pretends to drown him.
Thus, at great risk, the sovereign acts from compassion: homage to you! [Chapter 75]
Secretly, in his summer-house, the King continues to listen To Vairocana’s teachings and profound explanations.
But the queen and ministers hear of this and plot his excommunication.
At their constant urging, Vairocana is banished, Exiled to the far-off region of Gyalmo Tsawarong. 54
There, he continues to expound the teachings, Stretching far and wide across the land: homage to you! [Chapters 76-77]
A group of five lotsawas, including Namkhé Nyingpo, 55
Are dispatched to make their way to the Noble Land of India. There, they are taught by the master Hūṃkāra
On Śrī Heruka and the assembly of Peaceful and Wrathful deities.
In this way they each attain extraordinary siddhis: homage to you! [Chapter 78]
Returning early from India, and facing great obstacles, Langchen Palseng dies on the way.
Some time later, the sovereign himself falls sick, And the other four lotsawas are recalled to Tibet.
Namkhé Nyingpo conjures marvellous miracles
And, with the blessings of these, the king’s health is restored: homage to you! [Chapter 79]
The king praises Namkhé Nyingpo And receives his profound teachings,
But the queen and evil ministers start plotting anew.
They force his exile to Lhodrak Kharchu, 56
Where he stays and practices and thereby attains the supreme siddhis: homage to you! [Chapter 79]
Not yet content with the status of the Dharma,
The king, skilled in means, proclaims the establishment of the Two Doctrines. 57
He dispatches the lotsawas Ka, Chog, and Ma 58 to seek a great scholar,
And accordingly they journey to Kapilavastu: homage to you! [Chapter 80]
Vimalamitra is waiting, crown jewel of five hundred scholars,
And, with royal assent, 59 he sets off without delay.
Arriving at Samyé, he conjures wondrous miracles, Inspiring tremendous faith in the Dharma King 60 .
They shower him with offerings and a joyous royal welcome: homage to you! [Chapters 80-81]
Another hundred great paṇḍitas are invited to Tibet, Including, among others, the great master Buddhaguhya.
Their mission is to quell the bickering crowd of heretics.
In debate and feats of power, they soundly crush these opponents,
Allowing the pure brilliance of the Dharma to shine: homage to you! [Chapter 82]
Vairocana sends Yudra Nyingpo to spread the authentic Dharma. 61
Translators, king, and ministers know him as a great lotsawa;
He inspires tremendous faith in them when he speaks of his realization;
And they shower Yudra Nyingpo with praise: homage to you! [Chapter 83]
The chief scholars there, Vairocana and Vimalamitra,
Are greatly revered and trusted by the king. 62
At his request they teach, give translations and explanations,
Inspiring all who hear them to take up the study Of the tripiṭaka, tantras and commentaries: homage to you! [Chapter 84]
Translations are made of everything beneficial, Such as scientific texts on medicine and astrology.
The complete and perfect volumes of the teachings thus unfold, Streaming forth – a garland of the Buddha’s words,
Held in highest reverence, installed and established, And consecrated all around with flowers.
Auspiciousness and virtuous signs increase in great abundance: homage to you! [Chapter 85]
When Namkhé Nyingpo does not bow to the king,
His omission drives the ministers to the brink of revenge.
But the Secret Mantra yogi quietly conjures wondrous miracles,
And brings down the demon-minded ministers: homage to you! [Chapter 85]
Remembering the great kindness of all these lotsawas,
The King establishes holy days and study-practice centres.
Thus, he introduces his people to the ways and means of Dharma,
And encourages the teachings to flourish far and wide: homage to you! [Chapter 85]
He installs statues at Samyé and has inscriptions made.
At his command, the sūtras and tantras, supports of enlightened speech, Are compiled into the volumes of the Words of the Buddha and their commentaries{{The Kangyur (bka’ ’gyur) and Tengyur (bstan ’gyur).
Then the great scholars, amid resounding praise,
Return contented to their homelands: homage to you! [Chapters 86-88]
The Great Abbot 63 remains at the Temple of Awakening 64
While you, the master Padmasambhava, meditate at Samyé Chimpu.
There, you bestow extensive Dharma teachings,
And, at the sudden death of Pema Sal, you restore her to life: homage to you! [Chapter 89]
You give teachings on impermanence and tell the princess her future,
Disclosing her past lives and those yet to come.
You describe the various qualities of the treasure-revealers
And the ways in which the profound terma-treasures are concealed: homage to you! [Chapters 89-91]
You recount the names of the treasure-revealers
From Sangyé Lama 65 to Dechen Lingpa,
And foretell the various ways in which they will appear, Based on their respective lives and times.
Thus you spark tremendous joy in the king: homage to you! [Chapter 92]
You give heart-advice instructions to future treasure-revealers,
Expounding on the marks of their enlightened body, Expounding on the marks of their enlightened speech and mind,
And on the marks of their enlightened qualities and activity. You foretell the sites where the treasures will be discovered,
And you speak of the waxing and waning of the Dharma: homage to you! [Chapters 93-96]
At the age of fifty-nine, the king passes away,
A fact that you keep secret for fourteen years. Ruling the kingdom, you ensure in due succession
The enthronements of the royal princes Muné and Mutik Tsenpo.
And in each case you empower the newly appointed king 66 : homage to you! [Chapter 97]
Having shown infinite kindness towards both Dharma and society,
Your intention is to leave for the Land of Rākṣasas. But, to ease the sorrow of the grieving prince, 67
You give the Great Gathering of Transmitted Precepts, And the Heart Essence teachings, and your own life story.
Thus, you are able to soothe his despair: homage to you! [Chapter 97]
Again bereft, the prince begs you to remain.
But it is time to tame the Rākṣasas, and therefore you decline.
You give instructions and advice, broadly and in detail,
Promising to everyone your constant blessing: homage to you! [Chapter 98]
High on the upper terrace of Tradrug in Yoru,
Before the assembled company of prince and disciples, And the twenty-one lotsawas, and countless others,
For the benefit of the future you disclose the teaching, The Ocean of Dharma, The Great Gathering of Transmitted Precepts.
And you spin the ocean-like wheel of the Dharma: homage to you! [Chapter 99]
At that very moment, the Princess Mandāravā
Magically appears in praise of you, her Guru.
She sings of your excellent signs and marks. In turn, you reveal the infinite benefits Of praying to your statues, your representations.
Then, you bestow your outer and inner testaments: homage to you! [Chapters 100-101]
Lovingly, you give the prince the supreme accomplishment,
Foretelling how his sons will all become great Dharma Kings.
You also share the healing and beneficial relics From the flesh of the seven-times Brahmin.
Thus you satisfy all wishes and desires: homage to you! [Chapter 102]
At the Tsenthang Temple, you give to Queen Ngak Chung
Your profound mind instructions. And, at Crystal Cave,
At their constant questioning, you effortlessly give guidance
To Yeshé Tsogyal and Tashi Kyidren: homage to you! [Chapter 103]
You meet in sacred places with gyalpos, nāgas, and planetary spirits.
You overpower them, reveal their faults, Bind them under oath, and take away their life-force.
Entrusting such spirits to safeguard the teachings for the future,
You engage in countless ferocious activities: homage to you! [Chapter 104]
Having imparted your last testament to the prince,
You announce your departure for the Land of Rākṣasas.
Receiving abundant offerings, you set out at dawn,
Quickly reaching your destination, the forest at Zur Kar: homage to you! [Chapter 105]
There, your disciples, the king, ministers, and others,
Request you to expound the Dharma one more time.
You begin with the suffering inherent in the six realms, Inspiring renunciation and a yearning to practice.
Thus you grant them the essence of the profound path: homage to you! [Chapter 106]
Then, travelling through Lhasa, you bless the Jowo Śākyamuni,
Accompanied by quite a crowd – the king and ministers, Tantric practitioners, physicians and, astrologers,
And countless sponsors, both men and women.
This is how you reach the plain of Palmo Palthang: homage to you! [Chapter 107]
There, with great compassion, you give meditation instructions
Suited to the individual minds of the audience.
You give all-embracing advice, for now and the future,
Fulfilling all wishes and desires: homage to you! [Chapter 107]
Again filled with sorrow, they beg you to remain.
However, you decline and, at the Gungtang Pass, Surrounded by a host of welcoming ḍākinīs,
You rise into the sky, singing vajra songs.
You make the promise to all That you will never be far from them: homage to you! [Chapter 107]
Mounted on your horse, with the ḍākas as your escort, 68
Amid a swirl of rainbow clouds, swift as a lightning flash,
You cross the island of Siṅgala to southwestern Cāmaradvīpa.
That is how you leave in search of the hordes of rākṣasas: homage to you! [Chapter 107]
There, the path perfected, Spontaneously-accomplished Vidyādhara,
You assume the skull-garland form of Rakṣa Tötreng Tsal.
From there, for as long as saṃsāra still remains,
You will continue to send forth your endless emanations, Pervading all of space, bringing benefit to beings: homage to you! [Chapter 107]
In the land of Tibet, protected throughout the three times,
This emanation of Sarasvatī, 69 with melodious yearning and devotion,
Has compiled this biography of your life and liberation, This ocean of gathered teachings of Padmasambhava,
As the source for the blossoming of your enlightened activity: homage to you! [Chapter 108]
You reveal the three kāyas, you light the beacon of the twofold teachings.
Protector of all beings throughout the Snow Land and all worlds,
The enlightened activity of your life and liberation Is utterly inconceivable and marvellous to behold.
Guru Rinpoche, in devotion, homage to you!
With riches of the land and beings, material and imagined,
The enjoyments of myself and others, and all our gathered virtues Of body, speech, and mind –
With all this radiating forth as Samantabhadra’s offering cloud,
Devotedly, I offer it all to you. Please accept, and guide me with your love!
Since time without beginning, ignorance and confusion
Have obscured liberation and are the cause of saṃsāric existence.
I confess this hoard of evil deeds of body, speech and mind
And, with heartfelt remorse, I vow never to commit them again!
Every drop of pure virtue in existence and nirvana
That has ever been, or will be, or is now being gathered,
Is the fruit of cultivating the two-fold bodhicitta.
And so, in awe at the splendor of this bodhisattva activity I rejoice from the depths of my heart.
So that beings may be shown the countless doorways to the Dharma,
Especially the definitive vehicle of effortlessness,
The vajra pinnacle that is adorned with the six liberations,
I request you to turn unceasingly the Wheel of Dharma!
To the supreme non-arising and non-ceasing Vajrakāya,
Utterly undefiled by ordinary confusion:
I beseech you to remain, until the end of existence,
And dredge unobstructed the deepest depths of saṃsāra!
All of the merit accumulated through the three times,
By myself and others, whether defiled or undefiled,
I dedicate it now towards the attainment of the Guru, 70
The complete and perfect accomplishment Of all the enlightened activities Of his life and liberation!
For those who write, or read, or carry on their person
An account such as this of the Guru’s life and liberation, These true vajra words will bring great benefit.
Hence, filled with devotion, one-pointed, I pray:
Bless me, that I may swiftly be free from all adversity!