The Crystal Stairway A Prayer of Aspiration to Cross Over to the Copper-Coloured Mountain of Glory in the South West
oṃ āḥ hūṃ vajra mahāguru sarva siddhi hūṃ
Self-knowing awareness, primordial purity’s vast expanse, is the space of dharmakāya.
Its unceasing radiance, like the dancing play of the moon on water,
Appears as this nirmāṇakāya realm, perceived in our pure perception:
May we be born on the Copper-Coloured Mountain of Glory.
To the south west of the lands of Tibet,
North west of the great power place of the Vajra Seat,
Lies Chamara, the rākṣasas’ domain, the country of Laṅka:
May we be born there, on the Copper-Coloured Mountain of Glory.
In ages past, when buddhas all arose as Hayagrīva and Vajravārāhī,
And the eight parts of Rudra’s body were transformed,
It was his heart that blessed Oḍḍiyāna’s awesome peak:
May we be born on that Copper-Coloured Mountain of Glory.
This place takes the form of a warrior’s heart,
Its base deep in the nāgas’ realm, its slopes in the abodes of ḍākinīs,
Its summit reaching the heavens of the form-realm gods:
May we be born on that Copper-Coloured Mountain of Glory.
In all eight directions it is swathed in an aura of rainbow light,
And resounds with the music and melodies of gods, nāgas and humans,
While flowers of the five kinds of precious gems fall like rain.
The mere sight of this mountain puts an end to deluded perception:
May we be born on the Copper-Coloured Mountain of Glory.
The celestial mansion there is made of the five wisdoms.
The eastern side is crystal white in colour, the south lapis lazuli,
The west ruby and the north emerald,
Outer and inner enclosures enveloped in an iridescent trellis of light:
May we be born on the Copper-Coloured Mountain of Glory.
The walls consist of many kinds of precious jewels,
There are terraces and friezes, garlands of many colours,
Hanging tassels, parapets, porticoes at the four doors—all beautiful
And crowned by a lovely parasol, pinnacle and wheel of Dharma:
May we be born on that Copper-Coloured Mountain of Glory.
The courtyards all are graced with wish-fulfilling trees,
Bathing pools of nectar, with soft grass underfoot,
And wide gardens where flocks of incarnate birds with dazzling plumage,
Cuckoos and the like, sing out the sounds of Dharma:
May we be born on that Copper-Coloured Mountain of Glory.
There, at the very centre and heart of the great mansion,
On an eight cornered jewelled throne, lotus, sun and moon,
Presides the personification of all buddhas, Tsokyé Dorje,
Turning the Dharma wheel of the secret vajrayāna:
May we be born on that Copper-Coloured Mountain of Glory.
In rows on left and right and all around,
Vidyādharas and erudite paṇḍitas of India and Tibet,
The eighty siddhas and king and twenty-five subjects,
Appearing just as they choose, move in postures of vajra dance:
May we be born on that Copper-Coloured Mountain of Glory.
In every direction appear the yidam deities
Of the four and six tantras, and throngs of vīras and ḍākinīs
Performing exquisite dances, with sweet-sounding mystic songs,
Besides themselves in raptures of bliss and emptiness, crying out ‘phaṭ’ and ‘pheṃ’:
May we be born on the Copper-Coloured Mountain of Glory.
In the outer court and at the gates on the four sides,
The seventy awesome protectors, twenty-eight īśvarīs,
And oath-bound guardians of sacred commands spread out like a galaxy of stars,
Eliminating every obstacle, outer, inner and secret:
May we be born on the Copper-Coloured Mountain of Glory.
Above lies the heavenly sambhogakāya realm of five certainties,
With the Lord of the World, his retinue in clusters around him,
All of them their bodies translucent and adorned
With thirteen beautiful ornaments, like the wheels of bone:
May we be born on that Copper-Coloured Mountain of Glory.
Higher still in the dharmakāya realm, pure and limitless,
Is the self-knowing rigpa, the unborn, Samantabhadra,
His unobstructed radiance appearing as his entourage,
As he turns the Dharma wheel of threefold purity:
May we be born on that Copper-Coloured Mountain of Glory.
At the four gates wait Dhṛtarāṣṭra, Virupākṣa,
Virūḍhaka, and Vaiśravaṇa,
Along with an army of guardians, gods and demons of the eight classes
Beating their victory-drum at vanquishing legions of māras:
May we be born on the Copper-Coloured Mountain of Glory.
“Simply to think of this pure land,” you tell us, “will quell suffering,
And bless any disciple with a devoted heart”.
So now when we are like fish writhing on hot sand,
Don’t deny us the river of your compassion, vast like the waves of the Ganges.
Mahāguru, let your compassion’s cooling moonbeams
Shine on us all, tortured by samsara‘s searing heat,
Be it in central lands, or outlying places, and especially Tibet.
Or did you just forget your promise to protect us?
Now in the final dregs of time, this age of warfare,
When everyone wantonly revels in harm and destructive actions,
And we are constantly oppressed by disease, fighting and famine,
Our well-being, our happiness, is like a candle in the wind.
When the teachings and their holders are overwhelmed by obstacles and adversity,
When the power and energy of protector gods and local deities intent on good is spent,
When the forces of malicious spirits and demons bent on harm swell in strength,
Kyema! Mahāguru, hold us in the gaze of your compassion.
Like a vast ocean whipped up in the ferocity of a hurricane,
From outside and within, nations are plunged into conflict and turmoil. At a time like this,
When the Tibetan people too are scattered as if by a whirlwind,
Guru, bring us relief, give us shelter, without fail!
When all of our happiness and peace is stolen by hordes of troublesome spirits,
Then pound their heads with the vajra seal of samaya,
Take even the māras hardest to tame, their troops as well,
And let your power and strength render them just a memory.
Let the gentle rain of nectar from your secret body, speech and mind
Purify the harm and failings caused by our actions, words and thoughts.
Let the compassionate light of your wisdom, love and power
Chase out the darkness of our ignorance.
As our perception, in all its purity, becomes the Copper-Coloured Mountain of Glory,
Our awareness naturally arises as the Guru, the Lotus-born,
And risings all liberate in themselves, by taking this path to our original nature,
May we come to meet the absolute guru, face to face!
When mind and matter separate, yet we have not made progress on the path,
Then may vīras and ḍākinīs gather to show us the way,
And amid discs and beams of rainbow light, and stirring strains of music,
Let them lead us, we pray, to this pure nirmāṇakāya realm.
Lastly, may all the sentient beings there are, filling the whole of space,
Overcome all harm and danger, whether immediate or long-lasting,
And may we be born at the head of the great Guru’s following,
And live out the splendour of the four kāyas of enlightenment!