The Confession of Downfalls from the Great Compassionate One’s Lotus Uṣṇīṣa 1
Namo. I and all beings pay homage always
To the Buddha, the Dharma, and the Saṅgha.
We pay homage to the chief of them all,
The thus-gone, worthy, genuine, and perfectly awakened one: the peerless Śākya King.
We pay homage to Vajra Conqueror, to Blazing Jewel,
To Sovereign King of Nāgas, to Leader of the Warriors, to Heroic Sound, to King of Generosity, 2
To Blazing Jewel, to Moonlight, to Unerring Vision,
To Jewel Moon, to Stainless One, to Gift of a Hero,
To Pure One, to Gift of Purity, to Water Deity, to God of the Water Deities,
To Glorious Goodness, to Glorious Sandalwood, to Infinite Vitality,
To Infinite Splendour, 3 to One Without Sorrow, 4
To Son of No Craving, to Glorious Flowers,
To Splendour of Brahmā Miraculous Insight,
To Splendorous Lotus Miraculous Insight,
To the supreme thus-gone ones Glorious Wealth and Glorious Mindfulness,
To Renowned and Glorious One, to King Indra’s Banner,
To Glorious Hero, to Perfect Victor in Battle,
To Transcendent Victory, to King of the Array of Eternal Splendour, 5
To Courageous Lotus Jewel, and
To Lotus Jewel Steadfast like the King of Mountains—
To all these thus-gone ones, we pay homage!
May all you buddhas present here please pay attention to me!
Throughout all my lifetimes, births without beginning,
Whatever misdeeds—inexpiable wrongs, ten non-virtues, or stealing the saṅgha’s property—
That I have committed, made others commit, or rejoiced in, I confess.
All actions that cause wretched rebirths in the three lower realms
And prevent the buddhas from appearing—
In your presence, before your wisdom eyes, I hereby confess
In full disclosure, and resolve to refrain from them henceforth!
All the virtue accumulated in my many lives—through discipline,
Generosity, wisdom, patience, meditation, and diligence—
May this merit ripen swiftly so we attain true bliss!
This merit I now dedicate to beings beyond number:
May it be dedicated just as it is by the buddhas of the three times!
I confess misdeeds and rejoice in all merit.
Please, turn the wheel of Dharma and do not pass into nirvāṇa,
But remain with us here! May I and all beings
Swiftly attain both merit and wisdom!