A Drop of Sunshine A Guru Yoga for Lord Marpa
In the centre is the embodiment of all victors—
Outwardly he is Marpa Lotsāwa,
Inwardly he is Ḍombī Heruka,
And secretly he is noble Hevajra.
Brown in colour, he bears a wrathful frown and an intent gaze.
He radiates inconceivable splendor and majesty.
Wearing the simple attire of a tantric practitioner,
He sits in the revelling posture and displays the resting-mind mudrā.
By seeing his face, the four empowerments take effect within.
By hearing his voice, ordinary appearances come to a halt.
By thinking of him, co-emergent wakefulness is imparted.
Through his great confidence in the Dharma,
He subdues the perceptions of others; such is the power of his presence.
Through the wisdom that realises the ultimate,
He is able to liberate the mindstreams of others.
Thus he is seated before me, radiating resplendence.
At the five places of the Guru’s body:
At his crown is Guhyasamāja, vajra form,
At his throat is Māyā, vajra speech,
At his heart centre is Hevajra, vajra heart,
At his navel is Cakrasaṃvara, lord of qualities,
And at his secret place is Yamāntaka, master of activities.
Above his head, seated one above the other, are
The paṇḍita who underwent twelve trials,
Supreme nirmāṇakāya Nāropa;
Lord of siddhas, holder of the four transmissions,
Sambhogakāya Tilopa;
Glory of the sixth family, sovereign of the sevenfold unity,
Dharmakāya Vajradhara.
Below him in the four cardinal directions are his four main disciples:
Tsürtön Wanggi Dorje, 1 mirror-like wisdom,
Who saw the Guru’s every deed as excellent
And received the lineage of powa without training.
This lion-like yogi is seated with his palms joined
In devotion at his heart centre.
Ngok Chöku Dorjé, wisdom of equality,
Who offered whatever he had to the Guru,
And received the scholarly lineage.
This yogi, like a Bengal tigress, is seated majestically,
His hands in the Dharma-expounding mudrā.
Metön Tsönpo, 2 discerning wisdom,
Who did whatever would please the Guru
And received the lineage of the transference of luminosity.
This garuḍa-like yogi is seated in unwavering samadhi
With his hands in the mudrā of equipoise.
Lord Mila, all-accomplishing wisdom,
Who heeded the Guru’s every command
And received the lineage of fierce blissful heat.
This vulture-like yogi radiates both sorrow and joy,
While displaying hand gestures.
To Marpa’s right is Darma Dodé Bum,
Resplendent with the major and minor marks and a joyful countenance.
To Marpa’s left is his supreme consort Dagmema,
Aglow with blissful emptiness and a compassionate expression.
Surrounding Marpa, in the cardinal and intermediate directions,
Are a gathering of Kagyü gurus like billowing banks of clouds;
An assembly of deities of the classes of tantra, radiant as rainbows,
A mass of ḍākinīs like dust particles in sunbeams,
And a horde of Dharma protectors like a swirling snowstorm.
oṃ āḥ hūṃ mahā guru dharmamati hrīḥ svāhā