Luminous Bindu A Guru Sādhana of the Eighty-Four Mahāsiddhas I. The Preliminaries Consecrating the Amṛta and One’s Speech Offering the Preliminary Torma Expelling the Obstructers and Drawing the Boundary Refuge, Bodhicitta, the Eight Branches, and the Four Immeasurables II. The Main Part The Self-Visualization The Front Visualization Inviting the Wisdom Beings Requesting the Siddhas to Take a Seat Making Offerings Rendering Praise Recitation Invocation III. The Conclusion Consecrating the Gathering Substances Inviting the Guests Offering the First Portion The Remainder Offering Receiving the Four Empowerments Dedicating the Merit Making Aspiration Prayers
namo guru-vajradharāya
oṃ khaṇḍarohe hūṃ hūṃ phaṭ
By dropping all our concepts the samaya substances
Transform into a vast colourful, fragrant, tasteful, and potent
Ocean of wisdom amṛta
Which completely fills the whole of undefiled space.
oṃ āḥ hūṃ
oṃ kha kha khāhi khāhi | sarva yakṣa-rākṣasa-bhūta-preta piśācon-mādā-pasmāra vajra-ḍāka-ḍākinyādaya | imaṃ baliṃ gṛhṇantu samayaṃ rakṣantu | mama sarva-siddhiṃ prayacchantu | yathaivaṃ yatheṣṭaṃ bhuñjatha pibatha jighratha mātikra-matha | mama sarvā kārataya satsukhaṃ viśuddhe sahāyakā bhavantu hūṃ hūṃ phaṭ phaṭ svāhā ||
All of you, the eight great land protectors,
The thirty-two ḍākinīs and so on—
Come here with your retinues
And enjoy this offering-gift of torma.
Bestow upon us yogis and upon our retinues
Good health, long life, and power,
Glory, renown, and good fortune in abundance,
Immense enjoyments and luxuries!
Grant me accomplishment of the activities—
Pacifying, increasing and all the rest!
Samaya-holders, grant us your protection!
Support us with all the siddhis!
Annihilate all illnesses, untimely death,
Harmful forces, and obstructing spirits!
Annihilate all negative dreams, negative signs,
Negative deeds and those who do them!
Throughout the world may peace prevail, may harvests be abundant,
May grains flourish and livestock too.
Source of all virtue and excellence,
May all our wishes be fulfilled!
All those who are hostile to the teachings,
Those not entitled to watch or listen
Before the profound rituals of Secret Mantra—
All of you, disperse to some other place!
If you disobey this command,
A blazing vajra trident
Will crack your head into a hundred pieces!
oṃ sumbha ni-sumbha(ni) hūṃ | gṛhāna gṛhāna hūṃ | gṛhānapaya gṛhānapaya hūṃ | ānaya ho bhagavān vidyārājāya hūṃ phat
I and all beings—as infinite in number as the reaches of space—take refuge in the root and lineage gurus, gracious, glorious and sublime, who are the embodiments of the wisdom, speech, mind, qualities, and activities of all the tathāgatas of the ten directions and three times, who are the source of the eighty-four thousand sections of Dharma and the lords of the entire noble Saṅgha.
We take refuge in the assembly of yidams, the maṇḍala deities,
We take refuge the blessed buddhas,
We take refuge in the to the sacred Dharma,
We take refuge in the noble Saṅgha,
We take refuge in the host of vīras, ḍākinīs, Dharma protectors and guardians who possess the eyes of wisdom.
In the Buddha, the Dharma, and the Supreme Assembly,
I take refuge until awakening.
Through the merit of generosity and so forth,
May I attain buddhahood for the benefit of beings.
In the Three Jewels, I take refuge. 1
All my misdeeds, each and every one, I confess.
In the virtues of all beings, I rejoice.
Buddhahood and awakening, I hold in mind.
In the Buddha, the Dharma and Supreme Assembly
I take refuge until I attain enlightenment.
In order to accomplish my own and others' aims,
I generate bodhicitta, the spirit of awakening.
Having set my mind upon supreme awakening,
I invite all sentient beings to be my guests.
I shall carry out the supreme, delightful actions of a bodhisattva.
May I attain enlightenment in order to benefit all beings.
oṃ khaṇḍarohe hūṃ hūṃ phaṭ
I am the Blessed One, Cakrasaṃvara,
Perfect and primordially present.
I hold a vajra and bell in mudrā,
And I am in union with my consort, non-dual empty appearance,
Wrathfully smiling, elegant and graceful,
Appearing as the radiance of innate luminosity.
oṃ hrīḥ ha ha huṃ hūṃ phaṭ
All conceptual phenomena
Are the union of luminosity and great bliss.
From the nature of unified wisdom,
In the space before me a vast pure realm appears,
Immeasurable in design and display.
At its centre, upon a tiered throne
Of multi-colored lotus, and discs of sun and moon,
There sits in essence the root guru
In the form of Great Vajradhara.
His body is the blue of unchanging dharmatā,
And he holds a vajra and bell crossed at his heart.
He is adorned with the sambhogakāya attire
And he is in union with Sparśavajrā.
In all directions, in a matrix mass of five-colored lights are:
The yogis of the Brahmin caste
Led by the brahmin Saraha;
The accomplished vidyādharas of the royal caste
Led by King Indrabhūti;
The siddhas of the merchant caste who’ve mastered the celestial realms
Led by Guru Udhilipa;
The yogis born from the servant caste
Led by the conduct-holding Kaṅkālipa; 2
The siddhas appearing as untouchables
Led by the mahāsiddha Śāvaripa;
The mighty yoginīs of the celestial realms
Led by Mekhalā.
Like the radiant colours of an arching rainbow,
Sprung from the natural radiance of ineffable awareness,
You are the great illusory display arising within its own state,
Completely unarranged, yet spontaneously, vividly present.
Ahoye! Utterly pure, free of grasping at objects as real,
Please come, from the sacred site, the secret place of the Vajra Queen.
Come, nirmāṇakāya, glorious great Vajradhara,
And your assembly of the eighty-four siddhas!
Though you are free from concepts of coming, staying, and going,
Like the moon’s reflection in water, you appear to whoever focuses on you.
So please, come now to this site of my devotion!
vajra samājaḥ
In the centre of a beautiful lotus of non-attachment
Glow the sun and moon discs of skillful means and insight.
The dharmakāya’s house of light is vast and enchanting.
The corpse seat of non-concepts is oh so inviting.
Glorious siddhas, together with your oceanic retinues,
Please remain—as the great indivisibility of basic space and primordial wisdom.
Yoginīs arisen from natural awareness—
White, yellow, red, green, and blue;
With peaceful, passionate expressions;
The nature of the sixteen emptinesses;
And laden with the potent richness of great bliss—
Raise countless offerings of sense pleasures aloft in their hands.
Emptiness dissolves into emptiness
And wisdom revels in wisdom.
Thus, they present great offerings of the illusory display.
oṃ vajra arghyaṃ pādyaṃ puṣpe dhūpe āloke gandhe naivedya śabda pratīccha svāhā
oṃ āḥ vajra vīne hūṃ hūṃ phaṭ | oṃ āḥ vajra vaṃśe hūṃ hūṃ phaṭ
oṃ āḥ vajra mṛdaṅge hūṃ hūṃ phaṭ | oṃ āḥ vajra muraje hūṃ hūṃ phaṭ | oṃ āḥ vajra hāsye hūṃ hūṃ phaṭ | oṃ āḥ vajra lāsye hūṃ hūṃ phaṭ | oṃ āḥ vajra gīte hūṃ hūṃ phaṭ | oṃ āḥ vajra nṛtye hūṃ hūṃ phaṭ | oṃ āḥ vajra puṣpe hūṃ hūṃ phaṭ | oṃ āḥ vajra dhūpe hūṃ hūṃ phaṭ | oṃ āḥ vajra dīpe hūṃ hūṃ phaṭ | oṃ āḥ vajra gandhe hūṃ hūṃ phaṭ | oṃ āḥ rūpa vajri hūṃ hūṃ phaṭ | oṃ āḥ rasa vajri hūṃ hūṃ phaṭ | oṃ āḥ sparśa vajri hūṃ hūṃ phaṭ | oṃ āḥ dharmadhātu vajri hūṃ hūṃ phaṭ |
Oṃ āḥ hūṃ . With pristine vajra water,
Samaya amṛta, swirling in light,
The wondrous hook of supreme skillful means,
The radiant torch of primordial wisdom—
With these great samaya substances of unity, we make offerings!
The unsurpassable touch of women,
The perfect offering of great bliss,
The intrinsic nature, devoid of true existence,
Where notions of accepting and rejecting are not seen—
The basic nature uncontrived, the innate Great Seal.
oṃ āḥ hūṃ mahāmṛtānurāga-varja-śuddhoḥ ‘ham
Oṃ āḥ hūṃ . The innate basic nature, luminous simplicity,
Unbound by concepts of eternalism and nihilism, the great-bliss guru dharmakāya
Although appearing to come and go is yet devoid of coming and going.
Through self-recognition, I bow to the pristine vajra-mind.
The innate basic nature, unobstructed and inexpressible,
Like an echo in a cave, empty of true essence,
Is yet like a continuum, for it permeates all, the ineffable self-resounding nāda .
Through self-recognition, I bow to empty-clarity, vajra-speech.
Just like the moon’s reflection that moves on so many surfaces,
Though the moon itself in essence is unstained by movement,
You dance in accord with the dispositions of beings.
Through self-recognition, I bow to empty-appearance, vajra-body.
Beings are exhausted by the ways of saṃsāra; they are shackled by concepts of eternalism and nihilism—
Right here and now, as we recognize the ineffable basic state,
Bestow on us the wish-fulfilling blessing, the siddhi of seeing directly the enchanting face of natural clarity,
The youthful maiden of the two accomplishments—bestow this, I pray!
oṃ āḥ hūṃ guru-vajradhara sarva-siddhi-phala hūṃ
oṃ khaṇḍarohe hūṃ hūṃ phaṭ
By dropping all our concepts the samaya substances
Transform into a vast colourful, fragrant, tasteful, and potent
Ocean of wisdom amṛta
Which completely fills the whole of undefiled space.
oṃ āḥ hūṃ
From the great palace of basic space, thought-free blissful clarity,
Come, protector of beings, Lord Vajradhara,
Chief of all refuges, come, appear to us!
Come, gracious father, root guru;
Your emanations have gathered in the sky like clouds—
Come here and enjoy this feast offering!
Infuse this dwelling place with blessings!
Imbue this feast torma with splendid potency!
Bestow the supreme and common siddhis
On all of us yogis gathered here!
oṃ aśītiḥ siddhi labdhaṃ jñāna āveśaya a āḥ
In the central region, on the vajra seat at Magadha,
Resides the assembly of mighty siddhas, lords of yogis,
Who took birth for the sake of mother beings.
Your emanations have gathered in the sky like clouds—
Come here and enjoy this feast offering!
Infuse this dwelling place with blessings!
Imbue this feast torma with splendid potency!
Bestow the supreme and common siddhis
On all of us yogis gathered here!
oṃ aśītiḥ siddhi labdhaṃ jñāna āveśaya a āḥ
In the eastern region of the land of India
Resides the assembly of mighty siddhas, lords of yogis,
Who took birth in the supreme royal caste.
Your emanations have gathered in the sky like clouds—
Come here and enjoy this feast offering!
Infuse this dwelling place with blessings!
Imbue this feast torma with splendid potency!
Bestow the supreme and common siddhis
On all of us yogis gathered here!
oṃ aśītiḥ siddhi labdhaṃ jñāna āveśaya a āḥ
In the southern region of the land of India
Resides the assembly of mighty siddhas, lords of yogis,
Who took birth in the Brahmin caste.
Your emanations have gathered in the sky like clouds—
Come here and enjoy this feast offering!
Infuse this dwelling place with blessings!
Imbue this feast torma with splendid potency!
Bestow the supreme and common siddhis
On all of us yogis gathered here!
oṃ aśītiḥ siddhi labdhaṃ jñāna āveśaya a āḥ
In the western region of the land of India
Resides the assembly of mighty siddhas, lords of yogis,
Who took birth in the merchant caste.
Your emanations have gathered in the sky like clouds—
Come here and enjoy this feast offering!
Infuse this dwelling place with blessings!
Imbue this feast torma with splendid potency!
Bestow the supreme and common siddhis
On all of us yogis gathered here!
oṃ aśītiḥ siddhi labdhaṃ jñāna āveśaya a āḥ
In the northern region of the land of India
Resides the assembly of mighty siddhas, lords of yogis,
Who took birth in the common servant caste.
Your emanations have gathered in the sky like clouds—
Come here and enjoy this feast offering!
Infuse this dwelling place with blessings!
Imbue this feast torma with splendid potency!
Bestow the supreme and common siddhis
On all of us yogis gathered here!
oṃ aśītiḥ siddhi labdhaṃ jñāna āveśaya a āḥ
Secret, innate consorts
Of the infinite mighty lord yogis,
Sisters who bestow the four joys—
Your emanations have gathered in the sky like clouds,
Come here and enjoy this feast offering!
Infuse this dwelling place with blessings!
Imbue this feast torma with splendid potency!
Bestow the supreme and common siddhis
On all of us yogis gathered here!
oṃ aśītiḥ siddhi labdhaṃ jñāna āveśaya a āḥ
Eighty-four mahāsiddhas—
Eighty realized and liberated men,
And four realized and liberated women—
Your emanations are gathered in the sky like clouds,
Come here and enjoy this feast offering!
Infuse this dwelling place with blessings!
Imbue this feast torma with splendid potency!
Bestow the supreme and common siddhis
On all of us yogis gathered here!
oṃ aśītiḥ siddhi labdhaṃ jñāna āveśaya a āḥ
Namo . This vast gaṇacakra of nondual skillful means and knowledge,
Naturally pure, unborn,
Pure in essence, āli-kāli ,
Untainted by concepts, adorned with the five meats and five amṛtas—
I offer to the root of blessings, the Kagyü gurus, karaṃ khāhi ,
I offer to the root of siddhis, the host of yidam deities, karaṃ khāhi ,
I offer to the root of activities, the ḍākinīs, Dharma protectors, and guardians, karaṃ khāhi !
gaṇacakra [la] khāhi, pañca amṛta [la] khāhi
oṃ akāro mukhaṃ sarva-dharmāṇām ādyanutpannatvāt oṃ āḥ hūṃ phaṭ svāhā
Hūṃ . Come, Nyulemas, demonic ladies of the first remainder portion,
Who abide in the eight charnel grounds.
Come host of samaya karma ḍākinīs.
Come flesh-eating worldly messengers.
All of you appear in all sorts of terrifying forms,
Bearing bone ornaments, head garlands, and bells.
You sing songs and dance— kyuk sé kyuk !
Melodious tones resound— si li li !
The actions of your three gates quite incredible.
You tame beings with skillful means immeasurable.
Each of you have a retinue numbering one hundred thousand.
Hosts of countless ḍākinīs of all classes,
Come now and enjoy this pure remainder, this torma of amṛta!
Make the Secret Mantra teachings prosper and flourish!
oṃ sarva ucchiṣṭa baliṅte bhakṣa bhakṣakasi svāhā
All mother sentient beings as infinite as space pray to the guru, the all-pervasive dharmakāya.
All mother sentient beings as infinite as space pray to the guru, the great blissful sambhogakāya.
All mother sentient beings as infinite as space pray to the guru, the compassionate nirmāṇakāya.
All mother sentient beings as infinite as space pray to the guru, the precious buddha.
Ahoyé! Through the power of unfabricated devotion for the glorious guru,
This gathering of yogis whose accomplishment blazes as an array of yogic experiences
Dissolves into the bindus of glorious Vajradhara’s three secrets.
From Vajradhara’s forehead, a stream of white bodhicitta
Connected to the lalanā on the left dissolves into my forehead.
It purifies my physical obscurations and bestows the vase empowerment of empty appearance.
From Vajradhara’s throat, a stream of red bodhicitta
Connected to the rasanā on the right dissolves into my throat.
It purifies my verbal obscurations and bestows the secret empowerment of great bliss.
From the middle of Vajradhara’s eyebrows, a stream of mixed bodhicitta
Connected to the avadhūtī dissolves into the middle of my eyebrows.
It purifies my mental obscurations and bestows the wisdom-knowledge empowerment.
Then Vajradhara speaks with his inexpressible self-resounding nāda:
“When you can let be, joyfully, without artifice, within the basic nature,
The uncontrived natural state, the spontaneously-present primordial nature, the ordinary mind,
In the space-like expanse, free from birth and death, permanence and annihilation,
You will become sovereign of the dharmakāya, free from change and instability.”
Thus he transmits the warmth of his realization 4 and dissolves inseparably within me,
And I see directly the natural state of great, luminous simplicity.
May all phenomenal appearance become the divine mandala of boundless purity!
Through this merit may all beings,
Just like Youthful Sudhana, 5
Please their sublime gurus
With an ocean of good qualities!
In the space of phenomena, the sun of knowledge shines brightly,
Its tremendous light rays touching the lands of those to be tamed.
May there be the auspiciousness of the precious Kagyü tradition,
The illuminating lamp of the Victor’s teachings!