A Joyful Chariot for the Fortunate An Aspiration to Travel to the Copper-Coloured Mountain of Glory
Within pure personal perception, basic space of indestructible great bliss,
Is the spontaneously perfected Akaniṣṭha, the web of magical illusion’s display,
The most sublime amongst an ocean of myriad buddha fields—
May we be born on this Copper-Coloured Mountain of Glory!
On the peak of this king of mountains, made of enticing ruby,
Rises a palace built of precious jewels—
Exquisite, marvellously arranged, so beautiful to behold.
May we be born on this Copper-Coloured Mountain of Glory!
In its sandalwood forest sanctuary,
Is a turquoise meadow, like so many lotuses,
Where flowers show off their youth, laughing with radiant smiles,
May we be born on this Copper-Coloured Mountain of Glory!
Rivers of flowing nectar scented with camphor,
Trickle down delightfully into swirling pools
Where youthful dancers swim about and play.
May we be born on this Copper-Coloured Mountain of Glory!
From the webbed array of a tent of rainbows above,
A fine and gentle rain of flowers floats down
Upon kiṃkaras 1 at play in their blissful dance.
May we be born on this Copper-Coloured Mountain of Glory!
Clouds of beautiful ḍākinīs gather, lavishly adorned,
Carrying an abundance of varied sensual delights,
They fan out endlessly, across the full reach of sky.
May we be born on this Copper-Coloured Mountain of Glory!
In the centre of the gathered vidyādharas’ ranks,
Resides Padmākara, the Lord of Victors,
Forever proclaiming the great lion’s roar, secret and profound,
May we be born on this Copper-Coloured Mountain of Glory!
“I am the embodiment of all the Buddhas!” and so you are,
For the strength of your wisdom, insight, and love is unmatched,
As you act in accord with the infinite characters of beings.
May we be born on this Copper-Coloured Mountain of Glory!
Merely by recalling this treasury of qualities, endless as an ocean,
We are assured birth in your pure realm,
A splendorous maṇḍala of marvellous, awakened activity.
May we be born on this Copper-Coloured Mountain of Glory!
Let us wait no more but travel right now,
To the heavenly paradise of beautiful Lotus Light,
Where we accomplish the wish-fulfilling twofold benefit, just as you have—
O Peerless Guru, may we become equal to you!