The Rishi's Maledictory Incantation 1 An Invocation of Wisdom Mind and Sacred Pledges for Reversing the Disturbances and Agitations of Dark Times in the Form of an Aspiration Prayer
Namo guru ratnatrayāya! 2
Guide for this fortunate eon, crown ornament of the Śākyas,
Second buddha, Lord Orgyen Tsokyé,
Eight Close sons headed by
The supreme and noble Avalokiteśvara, Mañjuśrī, and Vajrapāṇi,
Twenty-one Tārās and the assembly of elders,
Root and lineage masters, peaceful and wrathful yidam deities,
Ḍākinīs of the three places, wisdom Dharma protectors,
Guardians of the four directions and the seventy glorious protectors,
Great masters with powers of clairvoyance and miraculous activity,
In your wisdom, please turn your attention toward all beings engaged in conflict.
The shared negative karma of beings in this final dark age
Froths as a huge ocean;
Goodness is neglected whilst the demons of evil
Churn intensely the minds of the powerful and the influential,
Spitting out wars that could reduce this earth to dust.
Hurricanes of weapons hatched from perverse aspirations
Unleashed to turn the entire universe and its inhabitants instantly to ash.
The portents of these bad omens of our approaching total destruction
Appear clearly in the sights, sounds, and thoughts of our world.
Yet the ignorant remain in their webs of delusion and doubt;
Exceedingly stupid, they still do not feel alarmed at all.
We are filled with terror from just hearing or thinking
About the unprecedented transformation of our world.
And we have no means or hope to reverse this,
Save the undeceiving Three Jewels and Three Roots,
To whom we cry like small children wailing for their parents.
Please hear our desperate prayers,
And remember your earlier commitments.
Extend your hands of compassion, as swift as lightning,
To hold and shelter those lacking protection and free us from our terror.
When powerful barbarians who plunder the happiness of beings in our world
Plot their battles,
Please transform these leaders and their minions—
Such ruthless malefactors—
Into proponents of peace, happiness and harmony.
Please extinguish the adverse circumstances of war right on the spot
And expel and destroy these demonic atomic weapons.
Then, throughout our great earth,
Let Dharma teachers live long, and learning and accomplishment flourish in all directions.
Liberate the world from the claws of nasty gangs of human and non-human
Executioners of the teachings and sentient beings, until not even their names remain.
May vast happiness saturate the whole world,
And beings be elevated through the glory of the four pursuits 3 to the Truly High. 4
May the times become perfect without the harm of war and strife, as during the Golden Age,
With everyone constantly enraptured in the dance of bliss and joy.
Through the compassion of the ocean of the Three Jewels
And the power of the truth of the dharmadhātu endowed with all supreme aspects,
May the purposes of our pure prayers be fulfilled
And our hopes and aspirations accomplished just the same.
tadyathā pañcendriyāvabodhanīye svāhā