Aspiration Written in Sadness During the Water Snake Year
To the gurus, buddhas, bodhisattvas, peaceful and wrathful yidam deities, vīras, ḍākinīs, dharma protectors, wealth deities and treasure keepers, I pay homage, make offerings and go for refuge:
Inspire me with your blessings, I pray.
In all my lives throughout beginningless saṃsāra until now I have committed harmful, non-virtuous actions, both proscribed and naturally harmful wrongs,
I have committed downfalls,
And done things that obstruct and obscure the path to liberation and omniscience;
I have encouraged others to do likewise,
And rejoiced in their actions. Thus, all that I have done both directly and indirectly related to body, speech and mind, I hereby confess before all the gurus, buddhas and their heirs.
I feel sorrow and remorse.
I do not conceal anything,
No do I hide anything.
Henceforth, I shall perfectly restrain myself.
Even at the cost of my own life, I will not commit such acts again.
Noble ones endowed with great compassion, please accept these remorseful confessions of mine, and grant the great absolution that purifies potential obscurations.
In your great love, forgive me, I pray.
As represented by the sources of virtue that I accumulate throughout the three times,
I gather together and combine all the virtuous actions of ordinary beings, noble śrāvakas, pratyekabuddhas, bodhisattvas on the paths of training, those on the stages of great irreversibility, as well as noble buddhas at the stage of no-more-training and nirvāṇa, from the first moment that they set their minds upon awakening
Until they finally attain complete and perfect enlightenment,
Both surpassable tainted and untainted virtues,
As well as the unsurpassable, all combined,
Presenting it as the great offering clouds of Samantabhadra to all you guardians and great compassionate ones.
Through this offering, may all that is envisioned by the noble root and lineage gurus and all the buddhas and bodhisattvas who dwell throughout the ten directions all come to pass entirely and without hindrance.
Unleash the power of the great truth and compassion 1
Of the victorious buddhas and their bodhisattva heirs throughout the ten directions and four times,
And especially the Oḍḍiyāna Guru Padmasambhava,
Ārya Tārā and Vajrakumāra.
As the fierce flames of the five poisonous mental afflictions
Burn and blaze within my mind,
And I am beset by desire and craving in particular,
I must circle again and again, tormented, in conditioned existence.
If I continue to succumb like this in future,
I will surely experience the intense misery of the lower realms.
Therefore, all you guardians in your compassion,
Let all my negative thoughts based on dysfunctional tendencies
Be swiftly and surely eradicated, I pray.
Grant your blessings so that they may never recur.
Cause my mind to turn toward the Dharma, the Dharma to progress along the path,
The path to pacify delusion and delusion to dawn as wisdom.
Gurus and yidam deities, guard me with your compassion.
Quench the fires of worldly existence, I pray.
Cause my wishes and actions that accord with the Dharma to succeed,
And pacify all obstacles on the path to awakening, I pray.
Kyema Kyihü! O compassionate protectors,
Look kindly upon me, an evildoer, I pray.
Do not permit me to fall prey to negative deeds,
But inspire me with your blessings so that I may swiftly develop
The genuine view and extraordinary realization.
As soon as I depart from this life, may I be reborn
In the blissful realm, in the presence of the supreme guide Lord Amitābha,
And receive a prophecy of my future awakening.
May all those connected to me, even those who merely hear my name,
Never experience the sufferings of the lower realms,
But take birth in the supreme realm of Sukhāvatī.
In short, in everything that I do
May I never consider my own self-interest even in my dreams,
But always act purely to bring benefit to others.
In this, may the protector Mañjughoṣa, Samantabhadra and others
Ensure that all this comes to pass, exactly in accordance with my aspirations.