The Falling Elixir of Blessing A Prayer to the Great Guru and His Consorts
Namo Guru Padmākarāya! 1
Perfectly enlightened buddha, in your splendour, lord of all,
Lotus-born, Padma Gyalpo,
Mandāravā and Yeshé Tsogyal,
From our hearts we pray, inspire us with your blessing!
Emanation of all buddhas of all time,
Brother of all ḍākinīs, mighty warrior
Dorjé Tötreng Tsal, to you we pray:
Inspire us with your blessing, Orgyen Rinpoche!
Grant us siddhis, care for us, ḍākinīs of wisdom!
In this whole world, and especially in Tibet,
You are our sole refuge, your kindness without end,
Padmākara, at your feet we pray:
Inspire us with your blessing, Orgyen Rinpoche!
Grant us siddhis, care for us, ḍākinīs of wisdom!
Beings of this degenerate age are for you especially dear,
In the morning and in the evening you come, for the sake of Tibet—
Guru, so compassionate, to you we pray:
Inspire us with your blessing, Orgyen Rinpoche!
Grant us siddhis, care for us, ḍākinīs of wisdom!
When the armies of evil and negativity deploy their forces,
Then think of us and strike as swift as lightning!
Dorjé Drakpo Tsal, to you we pray:
Inspire us with your blessing, Orgyen Rinpoche!
Grant us siddhis, care for us, ḍākinīs of wisdom!
Like a wish-fulfilling jewel, you are the source of all our needs and wishes,
Just to think of you dispels the misery of samsara and nirvana,
Guru of Great Bliss, to you we pray:
Inspire us with your blessing, Orgyen Rinpoche!
Grant us siddhis, care for us, ḍākinīs of wisdom!
To your followers like us, your sons and daughters,
Direct all the power and force of your knowledge, love and strength!
Instantly bestow on us the great empowerment of your blessing!
Here and now, grant us siddhis, ordinary and supreme!
And then in all our lives to come, Padmākara, with your consorts,
Keep us close to your heart, the children of your wisdom mind,
Empower us with the treasury of an ocean of secrets,
Let us master the splendour of the four enlightened activities
And so fulfil your vision and your wishes, Guru yabyum!
With this our prayer, may all be fulfilled as we aspire:
May the teaching of Buddha flourish and this world be rich in peace and happiness,
With all those harmful to the teachings driven far away,
Let everything be auspicious for the Saṅgha to increase in number, in harmony and with pure discipline,
And for the teaching of Buddha to spread in the ten directions!