The Annihilator of Damsi Demons A Prayer to the Lineage of the Great and Glorious Dorje Drolö
In the vast expanse of basic space free from elaboration,
To the dharmakāya of unchanging and boundless radiance,
From a state of awareness-emptiness, beyond grasping, I pray:
Inspire me to realize the natural state of primordial purity.
In the great Akaniṣṭha realm of fivefold certainty
To the sambhogakāya Great Compassionate Himasāgara,
From a state of clarity and emptiness in union, I pray:
Inspire me to perfect the great potential of spontaneous presence.
In the realms where beings are tamed by any means necessary,
To the nirmāṇakāya power of awareness, awesome Dorje Drolö,
From a state of unceasing creative manifestation, I pray:
Inspire me to bring benefit to beings without partiality.
In the three-storey central temple of Samyé,
To the dharma-king Tsangpa Lhayi Metok, 1
From a state of pure natural perception, I pray:
Inspire me to perfect the great strength of twofold knowledge.
In the great assembly hall of Zhotö Tidro,
To the foremost of ḍākinīs, Tsogyal of great bliss,
From a state of fourfold joy and ecstasy, I pray:
Inspire me to find freedom in the exhaustion of phenomenal reality.
In the pure realm of great bliss wherever one resides,
To Vairotsana, possessor of the eyes of wisdom,
From a state of confident faith, I pray:
Inspire me to gain realization as vast as space.
In the vast medicinal lands of realms beyond location,
To Pema Ösel Dongak Lingpa, 2
From a state of ardent and intense devotion, I pray:
Inspire me to develop the qualities of learning and realization.
In the great and glorious palace of Devikoṭi,
To Chimé Tennyi Yungdrung Lingpa, 3
Constantly from the depths of my heart, I pray:
Inspire me to attain the siddhis of the three secrets.
In the great palace of Kailash to the north, 4
To Mipham Jampal Gyepé Dorje,
From a state of recollecting kindness, I pray:
Inspire me to release the treasury of courageous eloquence.
On the seats of sun and moon and lotus at my crown,
To the omniscient guru Padma Vijaya, 5
With intense, unbearable longing, I pray. 6