The Melodious Sound of Gathering Auspiciousness A Prayer Based on the Liberational Life of the Omniscient Jamyang Khyentse Wangpo
You have understood the nature and extent of all that can be known;
With non-referential compassion, you regard beings as your children;
Dharma sovereign, capable of emptying saṃsāra from its very depths—
Noble Khyentse Wangpo, at your feet I pray.
The only father of the victorious buddhas is venerable Mañjughoṣa,
Whose manifestations, taming as needed, pervade the dharmadhātu.
As one among them, you purposely took birth in this degenerate age,
To become a glorious protector of teachings and beings—to you I pray.
In a medicinal valley in Derge, land of fourfold wellbeing and tenfold virtue, 1
Among the manifest regions for taming beings through enlightened activity,
Having applied the five supreme considerations, such as purity of family line,
You demonstrated taking birth as a nirmāṇakāya—to you I pray.
With one voice, supreme guides possessing wisdom
Prophesied that you would become a sublime individual,
And, as you transcended ordinary conduct, everyone, human and divine,
Praised you as a lord among beings—to you I pray.
You travelled throughout Ü, Tsang, and Greater Tibet,
Relying on more than a hundred teachers, whom you delighted in the three ways. 2
Tirelessly you searched high and low for the sacred Dharma.
To you, the one whose intention is immeasurable, I pray.
While you were meditating in Sachen Kunga Nyingpo’s cave,
The mudrā of the supreme deity dissolved into your heart,
Releasing the eight great treasures of courageous eloquence. 3
To you, whose potential for twofold knowledge was perfected, I pray.
Linguistics, logic, the arts, medicine, calculation, poetry and the rest—
As you perfectly mastered the five fields of knowledge
And their branches, your reputation for scholarship
Reached throughout the Land of Snows—to you I pray.
By merely glancing at the texts of the Vinaya, Middle Way, Prajñāpāramitā,
And the tantras of the Secret Mantra you realized their deepest meaning.
You gained infallible powers of mnemonic retention
And clearly displayed the qualities of Sthiracakra 4 —to you I pray.
The jewelled ornaments of your immaculate discipline are enchanting;
The smiling countenance of your concentration captivates the fortunate;
And the graceful play of your wisdom delights the three worlds—
To you, the mighty lord of threefold training, I pray.
Your dharmic vision of the profound and vast is unsullied;
You are unhindered in exposition, debate and composition;
And in all your actions you are uncontaminated by delusion—
To you, who induces confidence in gods and men, I pray.
You conceal your own virtues like treasure in the ocean;
You commend and revere the slightest attributes of others;
For the sake of the teachings and beings, you give away
Like hay even your most prized possessions—to you I pray.
With oceanic powers of memory, meditation and higher perception,
You are truly someone who is suitable for the three worlds to revere,
Yet you are not arrogant and would gladly endure hardship
Even for the sake of a single word of sacred Dharma—to you I pray.
Since you were never involved in any mundane activities
Seemingly related to the Dharma, such as administration,
You remain like a fearless lion, your activity always perfect—
To the one who is without rival on this earth, I pray.
All the rivers of scriptures, explanatory instructions and pith advice
From the traditions of the eight great chariots of the practice lineage
Merged in the sea of your heart, and with a stream of ripening and liberation
You enhance the vital channel of the teachings—to you I pray.
Great charioteer for the entire teaching of Śākyamuni Buddha,
You are a friend who impartially trains all those to be disciplined
And does not fall into sectarian bias, a jewel upon the crowns
Of all the various schools and tenet systems—to you I pray.
All your activity is performed solely for the benefit of others;
Your every connection is meaningful; you possess many wondrous signs;
The vast merit you have accumulated is beyond imagining;
Mighty lord of the tenth bhūmi, to you I pray.
The Guru of Oḍḍiyāna and consort, the noble Vimalamitra,
The ancestral dharma kings, Chöwang, 5 Omniscient Longchenpa,
And the rest—gurus of the ninefold lineage and the yidam deities
All conferred their blessings and siddhis upon you—to you I pray.
The great benevolent one, 6 the uncles 7 and nephews 8 and their lineage
Bestowed empowerments on you and entrusted you with tantras;
And numerous Indian and Tibetan scholars and adepts came to you
Directly and in dreams and repeatedly held you in their care—to you I pray.
The master Mañjuśrīmitra, in particular, transmitted to you
The secret treasury of sūtra and tantra, and by blessing you
In his wisdom form fully awakened your wisdom realization,
Indivisible from his own—to you I pray.
As you entered the maṇḍala of Gathered Intentions, the power of
The sublime Sotön Yeshe Wangchuk cleansed your impure aggregates and elements
And transformed them into the three secrets of Vajrasattva.
Supreme, omnipresent lord of all families, to you I pray.
The Vajra Queen, mother of the victorious ones, accepted you;
Appearance and existence arose as maṇḍalas, pure and infinite;
And you clearly perceived the maṇḍala of the vajra body—
Foremost of siddhas, to you I pray.
For you, the ḍākinīs gathered in the three abodes, outer and inner,
The wisdom of the three forms of blazing intensified,
And you perfected the auspicious interconnection of threefold conduct—
Great lord of yogis, to you I pray.
Your karmic propensity from numerous past lives was activated,
And you collected volumes of rarely transmitted instructions of sūtra and tantra,
As well as supreme representations and sacred substances, like countless rivers
All brought together within the ocean of your life of liberation—to you I pray.
By receiving the six lineages—earth and mind treasures,
Pure visions, aural transmissions, recollections and rediscovered treasures—
You acquired the kingdom of the seven precious transmissions. 9
Universal sovereign of Dharma, to you I pray.
Having mastered your own perception, you overpower that of others;
Even without applying effort, you accomplish the four kinds of activity;
And ḍākinīs, dharma guardians and powerful haughty spirits
Are at your beck and call, fulfilling your commands—to you I pray.
Through countless turnings of the Dharma Wheel, profound and vast,
You matured and liberated as many fortunate ones as there are grains of sand.
Master of a sublime and inconceivable life of liberation,
Embodiment of compassion, to you I pray.
You who demonstrated the conclusion of your vision for this world,
By merging as one in the basic space of wisdom intent with Vimalamitra,
Crown adornment of five hundred paṇḍitas and basis of your emanation,
At the Clear and Cool Five-Peaked Mountain—to you I pray.
Then once more, in the perception of those to be trained however necessary,
You displayed emanations of body, speech, mind, qualities, and activity,
Thereby to fulfil hopes and aspirations for the teachings and beings.
To you whose contribution to beings’ welfare is without limit, I pray.
When you, O protector, awaken as the great All-Seeing One, 10
May we have the fortune to share in your supreme enlightenment
By being among the very first in your retinue,
And by serving you as that victorious one.
Through the power of praying single-pointedly with unwavering devotion,
May I never be apart from you, the supreme and glorious guru,
Henceforth from this life until I attain awakening,
And may you guide and care for me until I realize liberation.
By following you properly through the three means of delight,
May I receive the essence of your wisdom and complete my practice.
May I fully perfect all the qualities of the paths and bhūmis
And ultimately attain the level of the mighty Vajradhara!
May there be no obstacles as I practise in accordance with the Dharma.
And as I gain mastery of the Dharma of scripture and realization,
May I spread the Buddha’s teachings throughout this world of ours,
And come to be your equal, O sovereign of Dharma!