Bestower of Supreme Accomplishment A Torma Offering to Mahākāla Visualization Invocation Offering Torma Offering Requests Praise Confession and Fulfilment Concluding Rite
I present various offerings to all the gurus
Of the Mahākāla empowerment lineage at my crown.
The very instant that I visualize myself as Cakrasaṃvara and consort,
All obstructing forces are scattered far into the distance.
And above and below, and in each cardinal and intermediate directions,
There arises a mountain of five-coloured fire, ablaze with weaponry, to form a protective dome.
Oṃ śūnyatā… etc.
Out of the state of emptiness, the great maṇḍala
Of enlightened body, speech and mind is formed.
Within É, Mahākāla, the colour of a raincloud, arises from Hūṃ.
He has four hands, the right two holding a coconut and sword
And the left two brandishing a skullcup and trident.
He is thickset with a sagging belly and sturdy limbs
And is adorned with the six bone ornaments and a chain of serpents,
As well as a crown of skulls and a necklace of severed heads.
He wears elephant hide and tiger and human skin.
He is gracefully poised upon human corpses,
Resplendent and dignified, and is embracing
His great consort while seated upon lotus and sun.
Also present are Ekajaṭī, queen of space, the liberating mother Śrīdevī Dhūmāṅgārī, and four Rematī sisters,
Together with the protectors of the three families, the four classes of activity protector, and eight pronouncement protectors,
As well as the sixty-four vajra messengers at the threshold,
The eight male and female gatekeepers, guardians of the ten directions,
And the four great kings—each with their own ranks,
All clearly appearing instantaneously before me.
Hūṃ. Mahākāla, great and mighty lord of all,
Wisdom protector, with your circle of attendants,
As we invite you through our ardent devotion,
Come now, swiftly and without hindrance, we pray.
Jaḥ hūṃ baṃ hoḥ
The samaya and wisdom beings merge indivisibly.
Empowerment deities confer empowerment and transform into the family crown.
Hūṃ. Thick clouds of Samantabhadra’s offerings
Multiply and become an inexhaustible treasury of space,
A magical hook for magnetizing the three realms,
With all the wealth of Yama’s court—this I offer.
Thoroughly purified with oṃ , massively increased with āḥ ,
Ignited with hūṃ and melted into nectar with hoḥ —
This torma of transgressors’ flesh, blood and bones
I offer to an ocean of the oath-bound— kharaṃ khāhi !
Oṃ mahākāla hūṃ phaṭ…etc. (Three times)
Akāro (three times)
Reveal all your power, strength and capacity
To vanquish the hosts of malevolent harm-doers
And to bring about, swiftly and without impediment,
Whatever we and those around us wish for and require.
Hūṃ. Great guardian of the teachings, manifesting wrathfully from the dharmadhātu,
Bearer of the name of raven, forces of Mahākāla,
Succession of female guardians and hosts of haughty attendants—
All you deities of this great maṇḍala, to you I offer praise.
All faults, including breakages of the root and branch commitments,
I remorsefully confess; through these outer, inner and secret offerings
Of pleasing substances, complete, with nothing lacking,
May you be pleased and the solemn pledges fulfilled.
For any errors or omissions which may have arisen in this offering,
I beg your forgiveness! Together with your retinue, dissolve into me
Indivisibly; thereafter, may whatever virtues I have here amassed,
Be increased further and further, so that we may accomplish the Protector!