The Method of Accomplishment of Ārya Avalokiteśvara The Practice of Great Compassion & Mahāmudrā in Union
Namo guru ratnavardhāya! 1
I and others,
All beings equal to space,
From this time forth until the heart of enlightenment is reached;
To the holy Root Guru and Lineage,
Essence of all body, speech, mind, qualities and activities
Of all tathāgatas of the ten directions and three times;
Source of the eighty-four thousand articles of Dharma
And master of all the noble Sangha;
In the collection of glorious root and lineage Gurus,
Through the three doors with great devotion, I go for refuge.
In the Buddha, teacher, having completely abandoned and realized,
Through the three doors I go for refuge.
In the holy Dharma, essence of the teaching of scripture and realization,
Through the three doors I go for refuge.
In the Saṅgha, the Conqueror's children, holders of the teaching,
Through the three doors I go for refuge.
Supreme guru and precious Three Jewels,
To you I pay homage and pray:
May you bless the three, body, speech and mind
Of all beings and myself.
Bless my mind to approach the Dharma.
Bless my mind to accept the holy Dharma path.
Bless my mind to pacify errors on the path.
Bless my mind that mistaken appearances arise as space.
Bless my mind that discursive non-Dharma thoughts are stopped.
Bless my mind that love and compassion may arise.
Bless my mind that bodhicitta may be perfected.
Bless my mind to quickly obtain omniscience.
For the benefit of all beings, once mothers, equal to space,
I must attain the highest enlightenment.
For that purpose I practice the profound yoga,
The path of all buddhas.
Oṃ svabhāva śuddha sarva dharma svabhāva śuddho ‘ham.
From the great sphere of reality, limitless and free,
Bestowing various wishes is a jeweled throne,
Unsullied by faults of saṃsāra – a lotus seat,
Naturally luminous – a moon maṇḍala.
Above, I arise as the nature of all buddhas, Avalokiteshvara,
In colour like stainless conch and crystal,
Very resplendent, smiling, peaceful and radiant.
With four hands – the first are folded at the heart,
The lower hold a crystal mala and jeweled lotus –
Two beautiful feet seated in vajra posture;
Adorned with many attractive heavenly garments and jewels;
Beautified with dark blue hair in tufts [some] loose.
On the crown of the head is the Lord, wisdom of all buddhas,
Source of all refuge gathered as one, in essence the Guru,
In the aspect of Amitābha,
In the manner of the Lord of the Family, seated happily.
I, in the form of the deity, am like the reflection in a mirror,
The union of appearance-emptiness, a dance of illusion,
Like an excellent dancer with many beautiful adornments.
Beautiful and resplendent is the mental appearance.
All sources of refuge combined, precious guru,
Bhagavan, tathāgata, arhat,
Samyaksambuddha, Amitābha,
Regard me with a heart-mind of love;
Blessings to purify bad actions, sins and obscurations;
To quickly complete the two accumulations;
For the arising of perfect meditation
And blessings to quickly obtain buddhahood.
Saṃsāra, nirvāṇa, happiness and suffering, all are pervaded by dharmas;
Dharmas all, have as the root, just mind.
Mind itself if examined, colour and shape are lacking;
Lacking therefore, singular and plural nature, it is empty.
Empty of the three, the power to arise, disintegrate or remain, it is free;
Free, yet clear appearance, unceasing, all elaborations pacified.
Pacified, mind itself is completely free from extremes.
In the middle of the heart on a lotus and moon is the letter HRĪḤ
Surrounded by the six-syllable mantra. Rays of light
Invoke the compassion of the conquerors, blessing myself,
Accomplishing the benefit of beings of the six-realms.
oṃ maṇi padme hūṃ
In conclusion, the throne etc., in the aspect of light rays dissolves into oneself, think.
By this merit may I and others,
In this life, have longevity, no illness and possess the Holy Dharma,
At death, be born in the field of Sukhāvatī
And quickly obtain the stage of Avalokiteśvara.
May the three, body, speech and mind,
Never be free from carrying the three, deity, mantra and wisdom.
With the power of compassion perform whatever benefits beings
And accomplish the performance of a conqueror's son.
In this life, the next and the bardo, in all situations,
May the supreme guide, Guru Amitābha, the Lord,
Never release the hook of compassion
That removes the faults from all the troubles of existence and peace.