The Lute of the Gandharvas A Garland of Offerings of the Sixteen Vajra Goddesses 1. The mudrās of the four outer beauties 2. The mudrās of the four inner beauties 3. The mudrās of the five secret consorts 4. The mudrās of the three common goddesses of the senses
oṃ hūṃ trāṃ hrīḥ āḥ
Here are clouds of outer, inner and secret offerings, all created from divine substances and meditation. While their essence is wisdom nectar, they appear as unending clouds of sensory delights. May they expand and multiply, to match Samantabhadra’s vast display of offerings!
namaḥ sarvatathāgatebhyo viśvamukhebhyaḥ | sarvathā kham udgate spharaṇa imaṃ gaganakhaṃ svāhā
namo ratna-trayāya | oṃ namo bhagavate vajrasārapramardane tathāgatāyārhate samyaksaṃbuddhāya tadyathā | oṃ vajra vajra mahāvajra mahātejavajra mahāvidyāvajra mahābodhicittavajra mahābodhimaṇḍopasaṃkramaṇavajra sarvakarmāvaraṇaviśodhanavajra svāhā
As fresh and flush with youth as a lotus in full bloom,
At a touch she bestows supreme bliss, her eyes like utpala petals.
As she moves with the gestures and glances of an enchantress—
May the vajra goddess of beauty bring you delight!
guru sarva-tathāgata sapārivara vajra-lāsye hūṃ pratīccha hoḥ
Not even the moon, most beautiful sight in this world,
Can come close to this vision of loveliness,
Ravishing as she holds out a necklace of jewels—
May the vajra goddess of garlands fill you with joy!
guru sarva-tathāgata sapārivara vajra-mālye trāṃ pratīccha hoḥ
They’re as tender and supple as a pristine white lotus,
Soft to the touch and with trailing vines of rainbow;
Their sweet voices sing a thousand melodies—
May all these vajra goddesses of song delight you!
guru sarva-tathāgata sapārivara vajra-gīte hrīḥ pratīccha hoḥ
Agleam with bands of turquoise and gold, their hands and feet
Move like honeybees swooping through a glade of flowers
As they dance in beauty, swirling into a magical apparition—
May the vajra goddesses of dance all steep you in glee.
guru sarva-tathāgata sapārivara vajra-nṛtye āḥ pratīccha hoḥ
Oozing with the vivacity of a sixteen year old,
She thrills the heart with every kind of unimaginable joy.
This gorgeous maiden, she offers a vase of fragrant incense—
May the vajra incense goddess envelop you in delight.
guru sarva-tathāgata sapārivara vajra-dhupe hūṃ pratīccha hoḥ
Even the charms of Lord Brahma’s immortal daughters
Are put to shame by her soaring, youthful beauty.
She holds you spellbound with her cascade of uḍumbara blossoms—
May the vajra flower goddess gladden your heart.
guru sarva-tathāgata sapārivara vajra-pūṣpe trāṃ pratīccha hoḥ
Her cheeks, so fair, so lovely to behold, are tinged
With circles of sindūra , her eyes like those of a gazelle,
That exquisite face lit by lamps of sun and moon—
May the vajra lamp goddess fire you with joy.
guru sarva-tathāgata sapārivara vajra-āloke hrīḥ pratīccha hoḥ
With her shapely figure, as heavenly as an immortal goddess,
The sweet scent of utpala on her breath, she diffuses
Delight with blends of the six healing ingredients—
May this vajra perfume goddess grant you every happiness!
guru sarva-tathāgata sapārivara vajra-gandhe āḥ pratīccha hoḥ
Her beauty is like a lotus, with every shade of youthfulness,
Her expressions like a mirror, reflecting anything that can be,
And of these two which is greater, when so lovely is her form?
May the vajra mirror goddess bring you only joy.
guru sarva-tathāgata sapārivara vajra-rūpe oṃ pratīccha hoḥ
Her body seems as if drawn by an artist in deep samādhi;
Her gorgeous face beneath its crown of mandāravā flowers,
She coaxes from her drum the sounds of bliss and emptiness—
May the vajra goddess with the round drum delight you!
guru sarva-tathāgata sapārivara vajra-mṛdaṅge hrīḥ pratīccha hoḥ
Jewelled rings on her fingers jingle
As she rivals even the gandharvas’ daughters,
Playing her lute to delight the ears and enthral the mind—
May the vajra lute goddess captivate and please you!
guru sarva-tathāgata sapārivara vajra-vīṇe hūṃ pratīccha hoḥ
Mounted on the winds of the sixteen joys,
The sixteen subtle drops find their natural purity,
And in the notes of her flute sixteen kinds of emptiness are revealed—
May the vajra flute goddess draw you into a rapture of delight!
guru sarva-tathāgata sapārivara vajra-vaṃśe trāṃ pratīccha hoḥ
As glorious as a dazzling moon or pure white lotus,
A maiden gorgeous to look upon, who all the while
Plays rhythms on her clay-drum so sweet to hear—
May the vajra clay-drum goddess fill you with gladness!
guru sarva-tathāgata sapārivara vajra-muraje āḥ pratīccha hoḥ
The raiment of the gods that adorns the sky of emptiness,
Precious beyond words, the sublime pāñcālika silk
Is offered by this delectable lady, draped over her magical fingertips—
May the vajra goddess of touch charge you with joy!
guru sarva-tathāgata sapārivara vajra-sparśe trāṃ pratīccha hoḥ
Her sidelong glances of intense desire, free of any clinging,
Slip in like thieves to make even warriors lose their minds.
In her hands delicious foods with a hundred flavours—
May the vajra goddess of taste offer you every satisfaction!
guru sarva-tathāgata sapārivara vajra-rāse hrīḥ pratīccha hoḥ
The perfection of bliss through bliss is emptiness,
And the lotus, source of great bliss, belongs to this mother-consort
Who gives birth to all buddhas by means of bliss and emptiness—
May the vajra goddess of the dharmadhātu delight you!
guru sarva-tathāgata sapārivara vajra-dharmadhāto āḥ pratīccha hoḥ