The Fount of Longevity Chimé Phakmé Nyingtik Lineage Prayer
Amitāyus, Boundless Life, natural, everlasting and indestructible,
Uṣṇīṣa-Vijayā, Victorious Conqueror of māra , Lord of Death,
Tārā, the Wish-fulfilling Wheel, 1 chief of the mandala,
To you I pray—grant me the attainment of power over life. 2
Śrī Siṃha, the very form of changeless primordial wisdom itself,
Vimalamitra, unchanging in the rainbow body of great transference,
Padmasambhava, you attained the imperishable vajra kāya :
To you I pray—grant me the attainment of power over life.
Dharma kings Trisong Detsen and Gyalsé Lhajé, destined to receive this teaching,
Vairotsana, Nupchen Sangyé Yeshé, Gyalwa Chokyang and Namkhé Nyingpo,
Yeshe Tsogyal, supreme secret consort on the path of longevity:
To you I pray—grant me the attainment of power over life.
Resplendent as a vajra, appearing in clear light’s vast expanse, 3
Jamyang Khyentse Wangpo, with your countless shining rays of immaculate wisdom,
You illuminate the darkness of living beings: glorious master,
To you I pray—grant me the attainment of power over life.
Yungdrung Lingpa 4 in your immortal body,
Chökyi Gyatso, 5 Tsewang Gyurmé, 6
And you, Chökyi Lodrö, enlightened lord of all buddha families:
To you I pray—grant me the attainment of power over life. 7
Holders of the core of the profound instructions in this Heart Essence transmission,
Root and lineage lamas, deities of the mandala of immortality,
Ḍākas, ḍākinīs and samaya bound terma protectors:
To you I pray—grant me the attainment of power over life.
With your blessing, let the vajra nectar, that is utterly unchanging, cleanse this body of the stains of transference,
And nurture the indestructible, original tiklé,
So that the longevity of my vital force , based on this illusory body of mine,
Is transformed into the vajra body !
With your blessing, let everything arise as skilful means and wisdom in the state of great bliss,
And the crucial points of the practice, common and extraordinary,
Eliminate impurities, once and for all, so that the longevity of the transferring tiklés
Is perfected as vajra speech !
With your blessing, let all appearances, free from delusion, be absorbed in the sphere of clear light,
And rigpa’s awareness enter the womb of the immaculate, primordial purity,
So that I realize ultimate and original longevity —never-changing and everlasting—
As vajra mind .
With your blessing, freed from all fear of cause and result, birth and death,
And master over a lifespan immortal, unending and supreme,
May I appear in never-ending enlightened forms, for as long as saṃsāra lasts,
To realize and embody indestructible vajra wisdom .