Summoning the Spirit of Abundance The Hook of Divine Substance
Hūṃ! Today, when the stars and planets are auspiciously aligned,
The materials for attracting prosperity and good fortune are all laid out.
As we perform this practice for summoning the spirit of abundance and prosperity,
Turn your attention towards us, all you deities and protectors!
Through the truth of the Buddha, Dharma and Saṅgha,
And the blessings of the gurus, devas, ḍākinīs, and guardians,
We summon now the spirit of high status possessed by all the influential!
We summon now the spirit of greatness possessed by all the prominent!
We summon now the spirit of vigour possessed by all the youthful!
We summon now the spirit of potency possessed by all the powerful!
We summon now the spirit of wealth possessed by all the prosperous!
We summon now the spirit of allure possessed by all the charismatic!
We summon now the spirit of wisdom possessed by all the learned!
We summon now the spirit of discipline possessed by all the ethical!
We summon now the spirit of attainment possessed by all the accomplished!
We summon now the spirit of wellbeing possessed by all the blissful!
We summon now spirit of happiness possessed by all the joyous!
We summon now the spirit of excellence possessed by all the good!
We summon now the spirit of courage possessed by all the brave!
We summon now the spirit of attraction possessed by all the beautiful!
We summon now the spirit of agreement possessed by all in harmony!
We summon prosperity and abundance for perfect victory and success!
We summon prosperity and abundance for accomplishing all our aims!
We summon prosperity and abundance for increasing all that is desirable!
We summon prosperity and abundance for longevity and perfect health!
We summon prosperity and abundance for power and renown!
We summon prosperity and abundance for auspiciousness and positivity!
We summon prosperity and abundance from the peaks of mountains!
We summon prosperity and abundance from the oceans' depths!
We summon prosperity and abundance from the lands in all directions!
Let the devas’ spirit of abundance amass like billowing clouds!
Let the nagas’ spirit of abundance swirl like the swelling ocean!
Let the humans’ spirit of abundance radiate with heavenly lustre!
Shining brightly like the sun,
Glowing vividly like the moon,
Sparkling lucidly like the stars,
Gathering thickly like mist,
Merging and flowing like a river,
And showering down upon us like rain!
Khuyé khuyé! Let the spirit of abundance be summoned!
Huyé huyé! Let the spirit of abundance be gathered!
Huyé huden! Let the spirit of abundance be brought forth!
An ocean of prosperity swells and churns,
The spirit of abundance glistens and sparkles with heavenly lustre,
And magnificence gathers and swirls like densest fog!
Let not this prosperity escape into the mountains!
Let not the spirit of abundance pass beyond the threshold!
Let not this magnificence wander elsewhere!
Let the spirit of abundance increase in our enclosures, filling them with livestock!
Let the spirit of abundance increase in our stores, filling them with grain!
Let the spirit of abundance increase in our homes, filling them with progeny!
Let stocks of nutritious food swell like the ocean!
Let wealth and resources pile up like mountains!
Let splendid clothing shower down like rain!
With the divine and the glorious remaining forever,
And magical treasuries as vast as space itself,
Grant us the siddhis of inexhaustible wealth!
From every direction throughout the whole of space,
Gather now the essence of prosperity and abundance,
And let it be absorbed into us and the supports of our practice,
Remaining forever stable like the banner of victory, never waning,
Forever present like the vajra, indestructible,
And forever immutable like the yungdrung, never changing.
Let this essence be as splendid as the sun and moon!
Let it expand like vast, billowing clouds!
And let it multiply like fine, bountiful harvests!
Perfectly bestowing whatever we desire,
Let the attainments of prosperity and abundance unfold!
Like a wish-granting jewel, a wish-fulfilling tree,
Or an excellent vase of treasure,
Let all that we wish for be spontaneously accomplished—
Grant us, here and now, this auspiciousness, happiness and wellbeing!