A Prayer Recalling the Life and Liberation of the Great Perfection Adept Rangjung Dorje (‘Naturally Arisen Vajra’), Jigme Lingpa
To Avalokiteśvara, lord of all saṃsāra and nirvāṇa,
To the son of King Kṛkin who went before Buddha Kāśyapa, 1
To Nanda, the younger half-brother of Śākyamuni,
And to the arhat Tsen Zangden, I pray!
To Garab Dorjé and Śrī Siṃha, teachers of the Supreme Vehicle,
To Vimalamitra and Akaramati 2 who was emanated by Songtsen Gampo,
The king Trisong Deutsen, subject Vairocana, companion Yeshe Tsogyal, and Gyalsé Lharjé—
To you who appeared in these various manifestations, I pray!
From when you played games as a child, you were compassionate,
And your mind was filled with intense renunciation and disenchantment.
Through your disgust for saṃsāra and longing only for solitude,
You were victorious in the battle against mindless entertainment—to you I pray!
From your twenty-fifth year, you traversed the paths of accumulation and joining,
And, through enduring hardships while cultivating devotion and compassion
And following the path of skilful means on the generation and perfection stages,
You saw the dharmatā nature of reality directly and unerringly—to you, I pray!
When, in a cave at glorious Samyé Chimphu,
You beheld the omniscient Longchenpa, and received prophecies,
The treasure of courageous eloquence regarding the nature and multiplicity of things was unlocked,
And the pride of conceit 3 faded away—to you, I pray!
When the Nyingma teachings had become just like a painted candle,
You compiled the tantras, produced a history of Dharma,
And upheld without fail the teachings of Kama and Terma,
The Heart Essence, the Sūtra, Illusory Net and Mind 4 —to you I pray!
When the Nyingma tenets were sullied and denigrated
By various other traditions,
Your great chariots of the Treasury of Precious Qualities 5
Elevated our own tenets—to you I pray!
Those of little learning and limited intelligence
Hold only partial views, just like the frog that lived in a well. 6
Yet amidst the constellations of scholars and holy beings,
You blaze like the sun of the teachings—to you I pray!
Noble ones, who have obtained qualities of freedom and realization,
Transcend ordinary concepts, since they abide in reality.
Thus, when your prajñā born of meditation became as complete as a full moon,
You gained a treasure trove of Dharma—to you I pray!
You remained in solitude, but still those with karmic fortune
Gathered from afar, like swans drawn to a lake.
Those without fortune, no matter how close, cannot be tamed,
And so you renounce positions of leadership—to you, I pray!
Thinking of the trifling concerns that are the bounties of this life,
You do not try to combine worldly ways with Dharma,
But practise pure yogic discipline, free from hypocrisy—
To you whose ways would delight Saraha himself, I pray!
Though beings are short-tempered, you strive to benefit them and the teachings.
Not belittling basic Dharma methods for setting out upon the genuine path,
And not becoming arrogant through praise and respect—
To you, a warrior unafraid of flattery or disparagement, I pray!
You do not make a show of offerings received out of devotion or on behalf of the dead,
But produce representations of enlightened body, speech and mind, such as the Buddha’s Words.
Make myriad offerings at the sacred sites of the ancestral kings, liberate lives, and so on—
To you, who benefits all with whom you are connected, I pray!
In meditation and post-meditation alike, you are unperturbed
By attachment or aversion, hope or fear.
Through your blessing, Avalokiteśvara in the flesh,
You benefit beings and dredge the depths of saṃsāra—to you I pray!
Yet still, until beings’ realms are brought to perfection,
You act for beings’ benefit. Since the special power
Of the two kinds of bodhicitta is undeceiving,
There is no being who is not your disciple,
But still, I pray: having become your disciple, may I keep my samaya pure,
And act as commanded; may my mind merge with your wisdom,
Throughout all my lives, may circumstances be right for us to never part,
And may I become indivisible from you, the Buddha ‘Completely Victorious’!