The Torch of Wisdom A Method of Offering Butter Lamps Based on Ārya Mañjuśrī
Oṃ āḥ hūṃ.
In the vessel of the spacious trichiliocosm,
I ignite the three worlds as the lamp of wisdom.
May this dispel saṃsāra’s dark among the six classes
And cause the experience of luminosity to increase.
oṃ mahā jñāna aloke vajra spharaṇa khaṃ
Hūṃ. All apparent things within infinite worlds,
Including both environment and inhabitants,
Are in essence luminous Paṇḍaravāsinī 1
And in form jewel garlands of clear illumination.
This limitless variety of sources of luminosity
Dispels the darkness of all saṃsāra and nirvāṇa.
The light of wisdom, forever shining brightly,
The lamp of beings, the torch of wisdom,
Offering clouds of great resplendence,
A great treasury of oceanic sensory delights,
I present to the deities of Mañjuśrīvajra’s maṇḍala,
The assembly of the infinite Illusory Web,
Together with their retinues.
Through this, as I and those around me
Confess our natural and proscribed misdeeds and downfalls,
Please heal all our impairments and breakages of samaya,
And dispel all disadvantage, adversity, and obstacles.
Expand and increase our longevity, merit, glory and wealth.
By eliminating the three kinds of restraining obstruction,
Expand the wisdom of twofold knowledge
And dispel the darkness of delusion among beings.
Cause us to realize perfect buddhahood,
Inseparable from Mañjuśrīvajra’s three secrets.
oṃ āḥ hūṃ ārya mañjuśrī jñāna āloke sarva pūja samaya hoḥ
Purify all misdeeds, obscurations, faults and downfalls for us and those around us—śāntiṃ kuru svāhā!
Increase the wisdom vision of twofold knowledge—puṣṭiṃ kuru oṃ!
oṃ a ra pa ca na dhīḥ
The deities of Mañjuśrīvajra’s maṇḍala are supremely delighted.
Inconceivable rays of wisdom light emerge from their hearts,
Dissolve into the lamps, which send out further rays to fill the whole of space,
Purifying my own and all other beings’ conceptual obscurations, impairments and breakages, together with their causes.
We receive the blessings of the three secrets and all forms of attainment.
We obtain the eight treasures of courageous eloquence,
And our realization of clear light dawns to pervade the whole of space.
oṃ vajra jñāna dīpe siddhi siddhi hūṃ | a a aḥ
Hoḥ. In the maṇḍala of the great all-pervasive sphere,
May the vajra master of natural luminosity
And the brothers and sisters of the chains of expressive awareness
Never part until the essence of awakening!
With great renunciation, may we see saṃsāra’s deception.
With great compassion, may we realize how all beings are our parents.
With great devotion, may we receive the guru’s blessings.
May we perfect the samayas of a great practitioner.
May we realize the view of the natural state beyond action,
May we enter the womb of luminous meditation beyond the mind,
May we sustain the conduct of natural freedom, pervasive and genuine,
And experience the single taste of fruition beyond discardment or attainment.
May I see the dharmatā radiance of awareness directly and relaxedly,
May the visionary experience that are expressions of awareness increase,
May awareness reach full measure with the perfection of the kāyas and wisdoms,
And may I actualize the great dharmakāya of awareness and emptiness.
If I should fail to attain stability in this lifetime,
May my thoughts at death’s departure dissolve into the basic space of dharmakāya,
May the self-radiance of dharmatā be liberated into sambhogakāya forms,
And may the deluded experiences of becoming be spontaneously perfected as nirmāṇakāya.
Having realized the space of the ground with its six special features,
May each and every being of the three realms,
In the infinite display of form that manifests out of the ground,
Be freed within natural and primordial basic space.