Shower of Blessings: A Guru Yoga of the Great Paṇḍita, Glorious Rongzom
My own body appears clearly as Vajrayoginī.
At my crown, upon a thousand-petalled lotus, and discs of sun and moon,
Is the essence of all the buddhas’ wisdom, Mañjughoṣa,
In the form of the guru who embodies all source of refuge,
The paṇḍita who is completely victorious over all,
Lion of speech, Rongzom Chökyi Zangpo.
He wears the clothes of a mantrin, a secret robe and brocade cloak,
And his long dark blue hair falls freely at his back.
He smiles in joy and radiates with the majestic splendour of the signs and marks.
His right hand, in the mudrā of supreme generosity, holds the stem
Of a pale blue lotus that bears an emblematic sword,
And his left hand, in the gesture of equanimity, supports a volume of tantra.
His two legs are crossed in the indestructible vajra posture,
And he presides amidst an expanse of blazing, five-coloured wisdom light.
From the seeds of the three vajra syllables at his three centres,
Light shoots out to invoke the infinite deities of the Three Roots,
Who return in the form of the supreme precious guru,
So that samayasattva and jñānasattva merge indivisibly.
To the Vajradhara lord of all buddha families,
Glorious protector and guru, I pay homage.
All my misdeeds, downfalls and faults accumulated throughout beginningless time, I confess.
I present vast oceans of cloud-like offerings, both real and imagined.
I rejoice in all the virtuous actions of the past, present and future.
In your vajra-like form and attuned to the various temperaments of all beings,
May you turn the wheel of the profound and vast Dharma, I implore you.
Whatever virtues I accumulate in the past, present and future,
I combine them all together in my mind,
And dedicate them for the sake of all beings who are as infinite as space,
So that they might attain the kāya of unity, the level of the glorious guru.
From now until I attain the essence of awakening,
May I never be apart from you, glorious protector and guru.
And bless me so that even when awakening is attained,
You may remain as the lord of my buddha family without ever parting.
As Mañjuśrī’s sun of wisdom dawns within my heart,
Compassion’s treasury expands upon the lake of my mind,
And I come to possess the Vajra-holder’s power and strength,
Inspire me to reach the level of a vidyādhara.
So that the true message of the sūtras and tantras in general
And profound tantras, scriptures and instructions of the Ancient Translations in particular,
May naturally and effortlessly arise within my mind,
Inspire me with your blessings, and empower me, O paṇḍita!
Glorious lord of Dharma, inseparable from the three families,
It is well known that simply praying to you
Brings your blessings and your direct appearance in visions.
Consider me according to your pledges and intention, O precious one!
Now, as we are tormented by the force of the five degenerations,
The teachings may endure but the four reliances are absent,
And the profundity of the sugatas’ intentions is difficult to grasp,
Transmit to me the blessings of the genuine lineage.
Continually, throughout all my lives, allow me to be a servant
Who contributes to the expansion of your magnificent activity,
So that the teachings and their essence, the three inner tantras,
May be upheld, preserved and spread throughout every realm.
Upon the moon at the guru’s heart, as the essence of secret mantra
Revolves around the syllable Dhīḥ, rays of light shoot out
To gather the blessings of all the victorious deities of the Three Roots,
And they rain down as buddha images, mantra garlands and insignia,
All of which dissolve into the guru’s form.
Through the stream of wisdom nectar that flows from him
I gain the blessings of enlightened body, speech and mind.
oṃ āḥ vajra mahāguru dharmabhadra sarva siddhi hūṃ
oṃ āḥ hūṃ vajra mahāguru dharmabhadra arapacana dhīḥ sarva siddhi hūṃ hūṃ āḥ 1