Offering the Eight Auspicious Substances and Seven Emblems of Royalty Eight Auspicious Substances Seven Emblems of Royalty
Just as in the past the goddess of beauty Prabhāvatī offered a mirror
To the completely and perfectly enlightened Buddha Śākyamuni,
Transforming it into an auspicious substance, in the same way, here and now,
Through this substance of the mirror, may everything be perfectly auspicious for all beings, especially the objects of this practice, as well as us and our patrons.
This mirror, through the great ocean of wisdom,
Is purified to become supreme, ocean-like wisdom,
And phenomena, in their inherent purity, are experienced without obstruction,
Through this auspiciousness may obscurations be purified!
Just as in the past the elephant offered the protective medicine bezoar
To the completely and perfectly enlightened Buddha Śākyamuni,
Transforming it into an auspicious substance, in the same way, here and now,
Through this substance of bezoar, may everything be perfectly auspicious for all beings, especially the objects of this practice, as well as us and our patrons.
Bezoar, the healing medicine that overcomes three kinds of poison,
Becomes the supreme medicine, thorough understanding of dharmatā,
Which eliminates the distress of the destructive emotions.
Through this auspiciousness may suffering be pacified!
Just as in the past the farmer’s daughter Sujata offered curds
To the completely and perfectly enlightened Buddha Śākyamuni,
Transforming them into an auspicious substance, in the same way, here and now,
Through this substance of curds, may everything be perfectly auspicious for all beings, especially the objects of this practice, as well as us and our patrons.
These curds are transformed into the essence of all.
By realizing the wisdoms that are the heart of all and utterly pure,
It is transformed into the space of all enlightened qualities.
Through this auspiciousness may the three poisons be pacified!
Just as in the past the brahmin Kuṇḍali offered durva grass
To the completely and perfectly enlightened Buddha Śākyamuni,
Transforming it into an auspicious substance, in the same way, here and now,
Through this substance of the durwa grass, may everything be perfectly auspicious for all beings, especially the objects of this practice, as well as us and our patrons.
Through this durva grass, lifespan is increased,
Having perfectly attained the longevity of Vajrasattva,
The destructive emotions no longer arise but cease.
Through this auspiciousness may life be increased!
Just as in the past the tree goddess Prabhāvatī offered a bilva fruit
To the completely and perfectly enlightened Buddha Śākyamuni,
Transforming it into an auspicious substance, in the same way, here and now,
Through this substance of the bilva fruit, may everything be perfectly auspicious for all beings, especially the objects of this practice, as well as us and our patrons.
This bilva represents causes, conditions and the fruit,
All activity, both worldly and transcendent,
Becomes the supreme essence of enlightenment.
Through this auspiciousness may our every aim be accomplished!
Just as in the past the king of the gods Indra offered a conch shell spiralling to the right
To the completely and perfectly enlightened Buddha Śākyamuni,
Transforming it into an auspicious substance, in the same way, here and now,
Through this substance of the conch, may everything be perfectly auspicious for all beings, especially the objects of this practice, as well as us and our patrons.
The conch, which resounds with the sound of Dharma,
Is purified into an ocean of wisdom,
Revealing all things perfectly and without error.
Though this auspiciousness may we gain power over language!
Just as in the past the earth goddess Sthāvarā offered vermilion
To the completely and perfectly enlightened Buddha Śākyamuni,
Transforming it into an auspicious substance, in the same way, here and now,
Through this substance of the vermillion, may everything be perfectly auspicious for all beings, especially the objects of this practice, as well as us and our patrons.
This vermilion, which has the nature of magnetizing
And bringing all phenomena under our control,
Transforms into an exceedingly stable kingdom of Dharma.
Through this auspiciousness, may the domain of Dharma be secure!
Just as in the past the Lord of Secrets Vajrapāṇi offered mustard seeds
To the completely and perfectly enlightened Buddha Śākyamuni,
Through this auspiciousness may our every aim be accomplished!
Through this substance of the mustard seed, may everything be perfectly auspicious for all beings, especially the objects of this practice, as well as us and our patrons.
These mustard seeds, which belong to the vajra family,
And have the perfect qualities of power and strength
To destroy entirely all hindrances and obstructing forces.
Through this auspiciousness may all hindrances be overcome!
Made from divine materials, its hub a perfect sphere,
With a thousand spokes and a perfectly even rim,
It brings total victory over hostile opponents—
May we enjoy the auspiciousness of the precious wheel!
The jewel, in essence, is the divine substance lapis lazuli,
Shining its brilliant light for a league in every direction,
As immaculate and bright by night as during the day—
May we enjoy the auspiciousness of the precious jewel!
Beautiful, captivating, and noble in manner,
With excellent complexion, gentle and perfumed,
Lovely to behold, she inspires intense desire—
May we enjoy the auspiciousness of the precious queen!
Victorious over all, and radiant as a pearl,
Like one who offers plentiful gold and the like to the Buddha,
A householder whose wealth is as vast as the earth itself—
May we enjoy the auspiciousness of the precious minister!
With every limb perfectly developed,
Firm and steady, like a mountain, on the ground,
Fit for a king, and perfectly unimpeded in the air—
May we enjoy the auspiciousness of the precious elephant!
Capable of travelling everywhere without exception,
Of galloping to the ends of the world and back again,
With a coat as beautiful as the throat of a peacock—
May we enjoy the auspiciousness of the precious horse!
Conqueror of the advancing and retreating forces,
The many hordes of Mara, who come from every direction,
Accompanied by your great armies, brave and steadfast—
May we enjoy the auspiciousness of the precious general!