The Vajra Lute A Brief Fulfilment for the Guru Practice of Vidyādhara-Assembly, from the Heart Essence of the Vast Expanse
namaḥ sarva-tathāgatebhyo viśva-mukhebhyaḥ sarvathā-khaṃ udgate spharaṇa imaṃ gagana-khaṃ svāhā
Āḥ! From the all-pervading space of reality arise the illusory manifestations of luminosity.
All appearance and reality is the Lotus Net pure realm. 1
The duality of existence is the expanse of the five wisdom lights.
The immeasurable palace of the jewel-like awakened mind is perfect and complete,
Marvellous and inconceivable.
In its centre are the customary offerings such as music, representing the eightfold path of noble ones,
Offering clouds of sensory delights, the six transcendent perfections completed,
The vajra consorts who bestow the sixteen blisses,
Medicine, rakta , and bali —union, liberation, and their indivisibility,
And the enjoyments of the feast, which are the play of bliss and emptiness—
Just like the offering clouds of Samantabhadra
They fill infinite realms. With all these:
Primordial purity of the essence , the space of the youthful vase body—
Dharmakāya Samantabhadra and consort, may your wishes be fulfilled!
Spontaneous presence of the nature , clouds of the wisdom of great bliss—
Sambhogakāya Garab Dorjé, may your wishes be fulfilled!
Compassion arising as the Vidyādhara-Assembly’s Lord of the feast—
Nirmāṇakāya Subduer of all Appearance and Existence, 2 may your wishes be fulfilled!
Chiefs of the maṇḍala in the guise of vajra masters—
Eight supreme vidyādharas, may your wishes be fulfilled!
Through your great accomplishment you demonstrate various miracles—
Lord and subjects, the twenty-five heart-disciples, may your wishes be fulfilled!
You who accomplish unhindered the peaceful, enriching, magnetizing, and wrathful activities—
Armies of four great kiṃkara door-keepers, may your wishes be fulfilled!
In addition, amassed like clouds of blessing of ripening and liberation
Are the vidyādhara gurus of the three transmissions; may your wishes be fulfilled!
You who bestow the ordinary and supreme accomplishments, like a shower of rain—
Infinite peaceful and wrathful deities, may your wishes be fulfilled!
You who support the yogis and accomplish all activities—
Hosts of heroic ones and ḍākinīs, may your wishes be fulfilled!
You who judge good and bad and protect the precepts and the teaching—
Ocean-like Dharma protectors bound by your oaths, may your wishes be fulfilled!
You who bestow all the wealth that can be wished for—
Yakṣas, gods of wealth and custodians of the treasures, may your wishes be fulfilled!
In short, hosts of deities of the maṇḍala
Of the inconceivable Magical Net, may your wishes be fulfilled!
Having fulfilled your wishes, please forgive our impairments and breakages!
Prolong the lives of the holders of the teaching and cause the teachings of study and practice to flourish!
Increase the happiness and prosperity of all beings, in accordance with the Dharma,
And enact your enlightened activity of granting the accomplishments, ordinary and supreme!