Aspiration to Be Reborn in the Realm of Sukhāvatī
Homage to the Blessed One, immaculate and infinitely pure!
In this realm of infinite radiance and bliss,
Formed from the accumulated merit of the Buddha,
There resides the protector Amitābha of boundless life,
At whose feet I prostrate myself in homage:
May I be reborn in Sukhāvatī, the blissful realm!
When you were known as the bhikṣu Dharmākara,
In the presence of Buddha Lokeśvararāja,
You vowed and aspired to create an excellent pure realm,
Saying, “I honour you. Sanction this forthwith, I pray!”
May I be reborn in Sukhāvatī, the blissful realm!
The ground is even and fit to be compared
To the soft and supple palms of an infant,
But with vast, immeasurable rivers and plains,
All overlaid with various types of jewels.
May I be reborn in Sukhāvatī, the blissful realm!
This delightful realm has no Meru, no vast ocean,
No ring of black mountains or ordinary dwellings.
Its wish-fulfilling tree of the seven types of jewels
Stands a thousand yojana s wide, six hundred high.
May I be reborn in Sukhāvatī, the blissful realm!
When the branches, all laden with foliage, fruit and flowers
And festooned with golden chains, stir upon the scent-bearing breeze,
They produce a sweet rustling and humming,
Pleasant sounds that one never tires of hearing.
May I be reborn in Sukhāvatī, the blissful realm!
Flowers that emit the sweetest perfumed scent
Fall as a carpet of tribute, seven bodies deep,
Endlessly enchanting and extending all around,
Which yields underfoot, then is instantly restored.
May I be reborn in Sukhāvatī, the blissful realm!
Only gods and humans are known; even the names
Of the lower realms or of the asuras are unfamiliar.
Such are its delights of riches and fine harvests,
It is called ‘Splendour of Which One Never Tires’.
May I be reborn in Sukhāvatī, the blissful realm!
As the easily fordable rivers of scented water
Flow placidly by without roiling uncontrollably,
Their charming sound, of which one never tires,
Communicates impermanence, peace and no-self.
May I be reborn in Sukhāvatī, the blissful realm!
On golden sands entirely free from mud and mires,
Swans, cranes, wild geese, ducks, karaṇḍa birds,
Parrots, sārika birds, 1 peacocks, kulana birds
And mythical kalaviṅkas 2 sing like the playing of a sitar.
May I be reborn in Sukhāvatī, the blissful realm!
These sounds 3 and all sensory impressions
Convey the meaning of the Three Jewels, the four immeasurables,
The stages, transcendent perfections, ten strengths, four fearlessnesses
And eighteen unshared attributes.
May I be reborn in Sukhāvatī, the blissful realm!
From the flowers and trees in enchanting groves,
Sensory delights appear instantly by the score,
And the immeasurable palace manifests in mid-air—
Wonders unrivalled even in Controlling Others' Emanations. 4
May I be reborn in Sukhāvatī, the blissful realm!
No planets and no stars, neither day nor night,
No households and no possession of them—
Instead, there are heavenly goddesses who produce
Clouds of offerings that inspire the utmost delight.
May I be reborn in Sukhāvatī, the blissful realm!
As many buddhas as there are grains of sand in the Ganges
Continuously extol the qualities of the victorious one
Who lives and presides here and honour as well
Avalokiteśvara and Mahāsthāmaprāpta,
May I be reborn in Sukhāvatī, the blissful realm!
Those who reach this realm with virtue obscured
Appear enclosed within the womb of a lotus.
Then, while sitting cross-legged, immediately arise
A second time and gain the marks of a great being.
May I be reborn in Sukhāvatī, the blissful realm!
Śrāvakas, pratyekabuddhas and bodhisattvas, in human and divine form,
Have sharp faculties and have attained acceptance. 5
They fly through the sky; they will never regress;
And they hear sacred Dharma without losing sight of the buddhas.
May I be reborn in Sukhāvatī, the blissful realm!
With skill in the concentrations and supercognitions,
With the insight that accepts all distinctions,
Not unrestrained but with senses under control,
And with the infinite, unbounded qualities of omniscience—
May I be reborn in Sukhāvatī, the blissful realm!
Through the true path that eliminates the causes and results of origination,
The arhats, too, actualize cessation.
They find relief in the space of threefold liberation
And receive the empowerment of great light rays.
May I be reborn in Sukhāvatī, the blissful realm!
The Dharma that is taught in every instant
Is incalculable, the miraculous powers so extensive
That they permit travel to other realms and,
By receiving Dharma, access to billions of samādhis.
May I be reborn in Sukhāvatī, the blissful realm!
In short, whoever hears your name or speech,
Whoever sees you, or meditates upon you,
Will be reborn in Sukhāvatī, the blissful realm.
As this vow of exalted bodhicitta is infallible,
Your deeds for others’ benefit are analogous
To the unfaltering tides of the great ocean.
As the descendent of Ikṣvāku 6 told Ānanda:
“Stand up and face westward,
Present a flower and fold your hands.
Pay homage to the perfect Buddha of Limitless Light, 7
Immaculate and infinitely pure.
His undefiled name
Is renowned in the ten directions,
Lauded by all the victorious ones.”
And so we offer our bodies and possessions without holding back,
Admit the negative acts we have committed and obscurations we have accumulated,
And rejoice in the ocean of enlightened deeds that have been performed.
We request you to turn forever the wheel of Dharma and remain here,
And we dedicate all the sources of virtue that exist
So that all beings may be born in Sukhāvatī, the blissful realm.
May all be auspicious so that our aspirations come true just as we have made them!