The Prayer of the Ground, Path & Fruition
Homage to glorious Samantabhadra!
The true nature of things is naturally free of conceptual projections.
It does not exist, since even the victorious ones do not see it.
Yet neither is it non-existent, as it is the ground of all saṃsāra and nirvāṇa.
There is no contradiction here, for it lies beyond the realm of expression.
May all realize this Great Perfection, the true nature of the ground!
In essence it is empty, hence free from the limitations of permanence.
By nature it is clear, and free from the limitations of nihilism.
Its capacity unobstructed, it is the ground of manifold emanations.
It is divided into three, yet in truth there are no such differentiations.
May all realize this Great Perfection, the true nature of the ground!
Inconceivable and free of all superimposition, one-sided fixation
On things being either existent or non-existent completely dissolves.
The full import of this turns back even the tongue of the victors.
Without beginning, middle, or end, it is a great expanse of deep clarity.
May all realize this Great Perfection, the true nature of the ground!
Its essence is pristine, unoriginated, and primordially pure.
Whatever manifests is the expression of this unconditioned spontaneous presence.
Without perceiving them as other, realizing the great unity of awareness-emptiness,
One’s understanding of the ground will reach a point of culmination.
May there be no deviations and mistakes concerning this key point of the path!
Pure from the beginning, even the term “view” does not exist.
Aware of the original state, the sheath of meditation falls away.
There are no reference points, hence no need to restrain one’s conduct.
In the spontaneously present nature, this state of naked simplicity,
May there be no deviations and mistakes concerning this key point of the path!
Not falling into partiality towards positive thoughts or negative ones,
And without giving free rein to a state of indifferent neutrality,
Manifestation and liberation—an expanse unrestricted, unbridled, and spontaneously free.
Understanding that the nature is inherently devoid of needing to accept and reject,
May there be no deviations and mistakes concerning this key point of the path!
Like space, awareness is the universal ground and starting point.
Manifest ground spontaneously present, yet vanishing like clouds in the sky,
The mind radiates out, projecting outwards and then returning within
To the youthful vase body’s inner space, possessing six unique characteristics—
May all seize the throne of this majestic fruition!
From the very beginning, awareness itself is Samantabhadra.
Within it, all hoping for attainments dissolves into the sphere of reality,
The true character of the Great Perfection, beyond intentional effort;
The sphere of reality and awareness, the inner space of Samantabhadrī—
May all seize the throne of this majestic fruition!
Utterly non-abiding—the nature of the Great Middle Way;
All-embracing and spontaneously vast—the state of Mahāmudrā;
Freed from limitations and wide open—the key point of the Great Perfection.
The virtues of the levels and paths fundamentally complete—spontaneously present inner space.
May all seize the throne of this majestic fruition!