The Ambrosia of Blessings A Prayer to Drodül Pawo Dorje, Vidyādhara of Unparalleled Kindness
Oṃ svasti.
The Vajradhara of Oḍḍiyāna, embodiment of the Three Roots,
In his manifestation of the one primordial wisdom,
Had twenty-five disciples, of whom you were the foremost,
Lord Matok with the name of Rinchen—to you I pray. 1
Then, to illuminate this dark age of fivefold degeneration,
Like the light of the moon, you appeared in your compassion,
With inconceivable qualities of knowledge, love and power,
Drodül Pawo Dorje, to you I pray.
You received the essence of the wisdom minds of hosts of gurus
From mind-direct, symbolic and whispered transmissions and mastered Samantabhadra’s realization,
To became the crown-ornament of all the accomplished vidyādharas,
Natsok Rangdrol, to you I pray.
Merely to glimpse the maṇḍala of your form brings liberation,
Your voice resounds like the thunderous roar of a dragon,
And your wisdom realization is as deep as the ocean—
Glorious guru, at your feet I pray.
In teaching, your elegant association of words and meanings is a delight to hear,
Through debate, you crush opponents like a mountain that grinds them to dust,
And your compositions are like a sacred monument of essential teachings—
Great bodhisattva, heir of the victorious ones, to you I pray.
Never wavering from the constant experience of clear light,
All deluded thoughts and habitual patterns have faded into absolute space,
And with great non-referential compassion you come to beings' aid—
Primordial lord and guru, to you I pray.
From this moment on, until I reach the essence of awakening,
Care for me, vidyādhara guru, without ever parting,
So that I may receive the blessings of the wisdom-mind transmission—
To you who accomplish your own and others' welfare, I pray.
May the teachings, the source of benefit and happiness, spread far and wide.
May the lives of the sublime holders of the teachings remain secure.
May the saṅgha increase and the whole world practise the ten virtues.
May the decline of the environment and beings be halted, and may virtue and goodness abound.