The Jewel Rosary A Concise Aspiration Towards the Buddhafield of the Blessed Akṣobhya
Before the mighty bodhi tree in the realm of Abhirati
Sits the victorious Akṣobhya, radiant in splendour,
Together with his retinue of śrāvakas and bodhisattvas—
To them all, with devoted inspiration of body, speech and mind, I pay homage.
Actually present and mentally created gifts, including all that is unowned,
The splendid riches of gods and human beings, 2
As great offering clouds of delightful substances that fill the whole of space—
All this I offer to the sugatas and their heirs.
Any negative actions I have committed throughout beginningless time,
In the past, present and future, as causes for conditioned existence
And the lower realms, I hereby confess, each and every one.
From this moment forth, I shall refrain from committing them again.
I rejoice in the virtuous deeds of ordinary and noble beings.
I request the victorious ones to turn the Wheel of Dharma
And implore them never to pass into nirvāṇa.
And I dedicate this merit towards awakening.
When victorious Akṣobhya generated bodhicitta
In the presence of Buddha Mahācakṣu in the past,
He vowed never to be angry, malicious and so on.
May I too accomplish the eight aspirations he made.
Moreover, may I act in accord with these vows,
By recalling the buddhas with every step I take,
Always renouncing domesticity in every life,
And so on, the eighteen aspirations of practice.
Similarly, may I not encourage faults among the fourfold community,
But ensure that even the word "downfall" remains unheard of
In this realm of awakening, which is so pure and full of qualities.
Thus may I accomplish the seven aspirations of earnest application.
As I carry out the activity of Akṣobhya, the Immovable,
Travelling from one buddhafield to another,
And delighting the tathāgatas everywhere,
May I never cause even an instant of displeasure.
In all my lives may I conduct myself purely,
And teach the nature of the perfections.
As I do so may I never feel the slightest
Physical or mental weariness or fatigue.
Through all the merit of giving the Dharma,
May the bodhisattvas in that buddhafield
Not forget the sacred teachings even after changing lives,
And may they take birth in that realm just as they aspire.
May I never be apart from these perfect buddhas
And always honour and serve them with respect.
May the māras and gods belonging to māra’s clan
Never come into contact with us at all.
Just as I seek the sacred Dharma,
For other beings who seek the Dharma too,
As long as their qualities have not been perfected,
May I carry out the activity of awakening.
As soon as I die and pass beyond this life,
May I be reborn in the pure realm of Abhirati
In the presence of the victorious Akṣobhya
And please him by practising the path to awakening.
Whatever qualities are possessed by the great bodhisattvas of that realm,
Such as the victor’s heir Gandhahastin, 3
May I come to possess them all as well,
And may the buddhas always express approval.
Just as the victor’s heirs receive prophecies
From the blessed ones foretelling their great awakening,
May I too reach the stage from which there is no turning back
And receive a prophecy of supreme enlightenment.
May I uphold that victorious one’s sacred Dharma,
Continuously illuminate the conduct of awakening,
Wholly perfect an ocean of twofold accumulation,
And bring an ocean of sentient beings to maturity.
In short, may I emulate the victorious Akṣobhya,
The way he aroused bodhicitta, acted and made aspirations,
And in a pure world that is the equal of Abhirati,
May I reach the level of that blessed conqueror.