The Excellent Stream of Nectar of Immortality A Prayer for Long Life of the Supreme Tulku Sogyal Rinpoche, Heart-Son of the All-Knowing, Precious Vajradhara Lama Jamyang Khyentsé Chökyi Lodrö, and a Great Pioneer in Bringing the Sun-like Teachings of the Buddha to the West
Oṃ svasti siddhi bhavatu!
Omnipresent Primordial Buddha Samantabhadra,
‘Twelve Dzogchen Teachers’ and thousand buddhas of this Fortunate Age—
Through the great purity and equalness of the all-pervasive wisdom mind transmission,
Shower down your blessings of eternal stability, and indestructible non-transference,
So that the life of the supreme emanation Sogyal Rinpoche 1
May remain forever firm, and all his wishes be spontaneously fulfilled!
The bodhisattvas of the three supreme families, the five great sages,
The three kings called Ja, then Kukkurāja and Gomadevī,
Gods, nāgas and humans of the sign transmission, gathered like a mandala;
Out of your spacious expanse of non-dual, great equality,
May the life of the supreme emanation Sogyal Rinpoche
Remain forever firm, and all his wishes be spontaneously fulfilled!
Garab Dorjé, Mañjuśrīmitra, Śrī Siṃha and Jñānasūtra,
The twenty-one learned masters, and all those empowered with the great aural lineage of mind, space and pith instruction classes
That liberate upon hearing,
Vidyādhara masters, through your blessings and power,
May the life of the supreme emanation Sogyal Rinpoche
Remain forever firm, and all his wishes be spontaneously fulfilled!
Immortal Padmākara, with your disciples—the king, the subject and the consort,
The two supreme ones, the five sovereigns and the twenty-five called ‘Lingpa’,
The twenty-one endowed with special powers, the hundred major
And the thousand minor tertöns—through your mastery of the secret treasury,
May the life of the supreme emanation Sogyal Rinpoche
Remain forever firm, and all his wishes be spontaneously fulfilled!
Amitāyus, Tārā ‘the Wish-fulfilling Wheel’,
Uṣṇīṣavijayā and the immortal Vimalamitra,
Thangtong Gyalpo, Mandāravā, Yeshé Tsogyal and the rest,
Through the power and blessings of infinite long-life deities,
May the life of the supreme emanation Sogyal Rinpoche
Remain forever firm, and all his wishes be spontaneously fulfilled!
Universal ruler over an ocean of great, incarnate tertöns,
Empowered with the space-like treasury of profound termas,
Was the great terma revealer Lerab Lingpa, and you are his compassionate rebirth,
Supreme emanation, Sogyal Rinpoche, may your life
Remain forever firm, and all your wishes be spontaneously fulfilled!
Lord over Yama’s hordes, Mañjuśrī in human form,
Was Padma Yeshé Dorjé, 2 who empowered you, a vidyādhara,
With the blessings of his secret body, speech and mind—
Supreme emanation Sogyal Rinpoche, may your life
Remain forever firm, and all your wishes be spontaneously fulfilled!
Empowered by Padmasambhava as keeper of the profound treasures,
A buddha for this age of degeneration, was the Vajradhāra
Jikdral Yeshé Dorjé. 3 You who are his great Dharma regent,
Supreme emanation Sogyal Rinpoche, may your life
Remain forever firm, and all your wishes be spontaneously fulfilled!
Holder of all the victorious buddhas’ secret treasury,
Crowning ornament of many million learned and accomplished vidyādharas,
Was the all-knowing Rabsal Dawa, 4 and you are the foremost of his heart-sons—
Supreme emanation Sogyal Rinpoche, may your life
Remain forever firm, and all your wishes be spontaneously fulfilled!
The pioneer of the three classes and the nine sections of Longdé was Longchen Rabjam,
Inseparable from whom was Jamyang Dorjé, 5
Who appointed you as a holder of his wisdom mind’s secret treasure—
Supreme emanation Sogyal Rinpoche, may your life
Remain forever firm, and all your wishes be spontaneously fulfilled!
Through study you were liberated, and realized reality as it is,
Now with vast love and care you work for the benefit of others,
A precious lama endowed with wisdom, love and spiritual power
Supreme emanation Sogyal Rinpoche, may your life
Remain forever firm, and all your wishes be spontaneously fulfilled!
In the dense darkness of the lands in the west,
You were among the first to shed the light of Buddha’s teachings,
And skilfully to make a rain of sacred Dharma fall—
Supreme emanation Sogyal Rinpoche, may your life
Remain forever firm, and may your wishes be spontaneously fulfilled!
With the transferring, subtle body of channels, inner air and tiklés
Sealed within the great bliss of non-transference,
Garbed in white robes, and with the long, diademed hair of a yogi,
May you place your lotus feet, unmoving, on the lion throne!
The unceasing melody of Brahmā is your vajra speech,
As you turn continuously the Dharma-wheel of
Profound and secret teachings, attuned to the mentality of beings,
May it remain secure for countless aeons to come!
Free from all concept, unchanging and sky-like is your wisdom mind,
Unobscured by signs of birth and death,
May it remain steadfast and indestructible,
For as long as the light of sun and moon continue to shine!
May all the hostile, malevolent jungpo demons,
Succumb to glorious Vajrakumāra’s might and power
So that not even their names remain. And at the very same time,
May you be fully empowered with the 'Boundless Life' of Amitāyus,
May the Lotus-born scatter flowers of auspiciousness,
And may the Queen of Space, with blood-red eye and copper face,
Watch over you and grant you the blessings of her protection!