Vines of Amṛta: A Prayer to the Lineage of the Bodhicaryāvatāra
Homage to the guru and lord Mañjughoṣa!
An introduction to the bodhisattvas’ way of life,
The single path that all awakened buddhas take,
Excellent work without equal in India or Tibet—
Gurus in the lineage of this text, to you I pray!
Born from the ocean of the awakening mind,
Lord of the three worlds, youthful sun in sign and mark,
Resplendent and pre-eminent amidst an ocean of guides—
Supreme teacher, Siddhārtha, to you I pray!
Father of all the buddhas, in the form of a youthful prince,
With the radiant light of wisdom extending throughout space,
Like a sun to banish darkness from the minds of beings—
Noble and glorious treasury of wisdom, to you I pray!
By drinking from the elixir stream of the inspirational blessings
Of heroic Mañjuśrī, you gained the youth of twofold knowledge,
And set in motion this excellent guide to the bodhisattva way,
So that it flows like the Ganges—noble Śāntideva, to you I pray!
Jetāri, who mastered the five branches of knowledge,
Gained the supreme siddhi and conquered the enemy,
Glorious and noble Candrakīrti the Lesser,
And Lord Guṇaśrī, to you I pray!
Kanakaśrī and Sumatikīrti,
Together with the great paṇḍita Jinamitra,
Nanam Yeshe Dé, 1 Chokro Lüi Gyaltsen, 2 and the rest—
To the gurus of the lineage of Ancient Translations, I pray!
Especially the source of philosophy in this Land of Snows,
Whose liberative lives delighted all the buddhas and their heirs—
Great lotsawa Ngok Loden Sherab, 3
And the master Jetsünpa, 4 to you I pray!
The supreme scholar, like a second lord of sages, Butön Rinchen Drup 5
And Tuksé Lotsawa Rinchen Namgyal, 6
The learned Yatruk Sangye Pal, 7
And the glorious Sangye Pel, 8 to you I pray!
Garland of Karmapas, lords of the world and protectors of beings,
Upon the lofty peak of perfect meditative placement, 9
The sun and moon of scripture and reasoning dispel the world’s darkness—
Mikyö Dorje, 10 to you I pray!
With the emerald steed of wisdom you travelled to the limits of space,
Great solar maṇḍala of compassion blazing with your myriad rays,
Wearers of the red-hat crown, Könchok Bang 11
Chökyi Wangchuk Dorje, to you I pray!
Perfectly poised on the summit of the Snowy Land’s practice lineage,
With the melodious roar of excellent explanation, you shook the three worlds,
Powerful lord of reasoning, paṇḍita of the northern direction,
Jamyang Sardu Shepa, 12 to you I pray!
Holder of the white lotus emanating in saffron robes,
With the perfectly full moon of your limitless compassion,
You caused the ocean of essential Buddhist teachings to expand—
Noble Karma Chakmé, 13 to you I pray!
Emanation of the bliss-gone buddha Śikhin,
King of the Dharma’s profound meaning, Dzogchenpa,
Lord of siddhas, refuge to beings of the three worlds—
Noble Pema Rigdzin, 14 to you I pray!
Follower of the latter who held the treasury of his teaching,
Sounded the great dharma drum of victory with fine discourse,
And graced the hearing of assemblies with his words—
Noble Namkha Ösel, 15 to you I pray!
Display of the three secrets of the lord of siddhas,
Your life of learning and accomplishment was like a jewel,
Which, in form, would test the capacity of space itself—
Noble Tekchok Tenzin, 16 to you I pray!
Compassionate lord of wisdom, love and power,
You light up the teachings through explanation and practice,
Magnificently learned and accomplished Tashi Gyatso, 17
And great khenpo Rigdzin Zangpo, 18 to you I pray!
Upon the fine saffron-coloured robes of an observer of vows,
You attached the perfect adornment of the jewel of bodhicitta,
And with your excellent explanation bestowed the supreme gift—
Noble Pema Tashi, 19 to you I pray!
Magical emanation of the single eye of the world, the translator Vairocana,
Great leader, foremost among the oceanic holders of Vinaya,
Pioneer of the Ancient Translation teachings and holder of the Kangyur—
Noble Shenpen Tayé, 20 to you I pray!
Śāntideva, appearing in order to spread his own treatise,
As one adorned with the most wondrous qualities
The seven noble riches and twelve ascetic practices—
Jigme Chökyi Wangpo, to you I pray!
Through the virtue of pacing with unshakeable faith
In these noble beings with their oceanic qualities,
May the faults that are incompatible with bodhicitta
Never arise in my mindstream,
And may I be rich with the noble treasures of learning and discipline.
Renouncing busyness, in the peace of mountain solitudes
May I always train in bodhicitta according to the two truths
And swiftly attain the level of the lord of victors!