A Glorious Garland of the Two Accomplishments An Abridged Feast-Offering for the Female Practice of the Ḍākinī 1 Blessing the Offerings First Portion Dedicating the Remainder Aspiration Prayer
Hoḥ! In the wondrous vessel vessel of great bliss
Are arranged the delights of the feast-offering,
The samaya substances that are free from accepting and rejecting.
With oṃ āḥ hūṃ they are transformed into ambrosia.
Hūṃ! The Unsurpassed 3 and the other celestial realms,
The sacred places where the heroic ones 4 and ḍākinīs gather,
The twenty-four emanated places,
Are inwardly the cities of our vajra body.
The crown of the head is Jālandhara and so on—
Dwelling in the maṇḍala of the three seats of completeness, 5
Heroic ones and yoginīs,
Ḍākas and ḍākinīs—
Come and enjoy this feast-offering!
Your top-knots swaying,
Your long tresses swinging to and fro,
Your earrings, anklets and armlets jingling,
Your bone ornaments rattling, your tiny bells ringing,
With small skull-drums and bells resounding,
Take pleasure in our vajra songs and dances!
We offer you the enjoyment of these sensory delights as the feast!
We confess our impairments of samaya!
Liberate outer and inner obstacles into all-encompassing space!
Grant us the supreme and common accomplishments!
oṃ akāro mukhaṃ sarvadharmānām ādyanutpannatvāt oṃ āḥ hūṃ phaṭ svāhā
Peṃ peṃ! All you attendants who share in the remainder and carry out the commands:
The thirty-two ḍākinīs,
The great kiṃkara with consorts and laṅkā spirits in your hundreds of thousands,
The three hundred sixty classes of messengers,
The Four Swift Ones and Eight Blazing Ones,
Seven Mātṛkās and Four Sisters,
The forceful, roaming and therianthropic spirits— 6
You who crave leftovers and roam the assembly halls,
Please accept this excellent remainder!
Dispel all unfavourable, negative circumstances and obstacles!
Accomplish the activities entrusted to you, this is our request!
In the city of the wisdom ḍākinīs,
Through offering this feast,
May I and all beings, without exception,
Attain realization in one maṇḍala!