The Bestowal of Supreme Blessings In Praise of the Vajradhara Loter Wangpo
Oṃ svasti!
Mighty Vajradhara appearing in human form,
Supreme source for the emanation and absorption of oceanic maṇḍalas,
Glorious Lord of Secrets, pervading throughout the animate and inanimate world,
To the one upon the blossoming white lotus in the centre of my heart, I bow!
The mighty keeper of the secrets of all the buddhas
Is Vajrapāṇi, vanquisher of foes and unruly demons,
A great treasure of oceanic power, strength and capacity,
And inseparable from him is the glorious guru, to whom I bow!
From a young age, your enlightened potential was awakened,
You practised the entirely pure conduct of the bodhisattvas
And became superlative in study, reflection and meditation—
Genuinely omniscient guru, to you I bow down!
Skilled in teaching, you captivated countless intelligent minds,
Through debate, you halted the tongues of mistaken dogmatists,
And through composition, skilfully shone light upon Buddha’s teaching—
Second Lord of Sages for this northern realm, to you I bow!
With unparalleled magnanimity toward the teachings and beings,
You spread the activities of renunciation and study far and wide,
Commissioned sublime supports of enlightened body, speech and mind,
And more—great leader of the buddha’s heirs, to you I bow!
At this time of degeneration when the precious teachings are in decline,
With your altruistic intention as stable as a vajra mountain,
You compiled a treasury of the Vajradhara’s secret mantras, 1
Vajra holder, to you I bow down!
You illuminated the precious teachings of the aural lineage,
Of the lord of yogis, venerable Virūpa,
And as a lord of Dharma were without peer in the three worlds—
Guru whose memory banishes distress, to you I bow!
Through the fourfold dissolution of the nectar of profound meaning,
In the four maṇḍalas of the vajra body,
You are the mighty lord of the four kāyas, glorious Hevajra—
Jamyang Loter Wangpo, at your feet I bow!
Through the power of offering praise and prayer like this,
May we always be accepted by the guru throughout our lives.
May we each the culmination of the path of the two stages,
And become inseparable from your secret body, speech and mind.