A Prayer to Recognize My Own Faults and Keep in Mind the Objects of Refuge
I pay homage to the guru!
Śākyamuni, Victorious One, Supreme Guide of the realm for this fortunate aeon,
Sons of the Victorious one, assembly of noble bodhisattvas who tame sentient beings,
Lord guru, matchless saviour of beings in the dark age,
The three roots and oath-bound dharma guardians—
Again and again, I ask from my heart, recalling you with longing and one-pointed mind—
Please turn your attention toward me.
Take hold of me with your loving-kindness and with the power of your unhindered compassion
Grant your blessings that my thoughts and aims be carried out in accord with Dharma.
Through past acts, not without merit, I have obtained this precious human birth.
Through past merit, not slight, I have met the sublime Dharma.
Accepted by the guru, I was able to obtain empowerments, blessings, and the essential instructions—
All this wealth I now hold in my hands.
But my mind, like a babbling monkey, falls under the sway
Of the enticing, deceptive demon of distraction
And I can not take advantage of the wealth that is my own.
Thus, this free, well-favoured human birth and the lama’s teaching are both wasted.
Now I am at a turning point:
All the teachings that I have asked for, all I have received, are like a myth.
My body has the appearance of a practitioner, and I have a practitioner’s conceit;
My mind can not fathom the true teachings.
Lacking even a trace of common Dharma, much less holy Dharma,
The sixteen rules for ordinary social behaviour are just something that I have heard of.
Seeing myself behave badly, I am without shame; seen by others, I am unembarrassed;
My bond to the teachings is short as a marmot’s tail.
Unable to practice properly true Dharma’s ten virtuous deeds,
Harbouring sectarian bias toward the one Buddha’s teachings, I slander the teachings and great beings and gather up bad karma.
Based on Dharma I carry a great weight of evil deeds.
The more teaching I’ve received, the more my vision of myself inflates,
Though intellectual analyses can not penetrate the deep meaning of the teachings.
With conceit, I think, “I keep the pratimokṣa disciplines!”
But the four virtuous dharma practices 1 have been lost without a trace.
With conceit, I think, “I posses the precious bodhisattva training!”
But the four immeasurables are just like pictures of a lamp.
With conceit, I think, “I keep the secret mantrayāna samayas!”
But, not respecting the first root transgression, I become careless about all the rest.
I can glibly explain the four thoughts that turn the mind to Dharma,
But my attachment to phenomena shows that my own mind has not truly changed.
Though I rely on a teacher, respect and devotion slowly ebb away;
Instead of having pure perception, I have wrong views, and see the guru as my equal.
Love and respect toward my vajra-friends weakens;
Unable to endure a few harsh words, I complain constantly.
Lacking thorough training in bodhicitta,
The love and compassion that comes about from seeing all beings of the six realms as my parents disappears like mist.
Although I act as if I practice the paths of generation and completion,
I cannot even cope with ordinary endless delusion.
I recognize that the ultimate teaching of sūtra and tantra is emptiness,
But cannot make use of that recognition; my mind-stream stays hard as horn.
When I practice remaining in mind’s true condition
I am without stability, yet I mouth off about the profound view and toss cause and effect to the winds.
On the outside—I can give a show of good behaviour;
On the inside—desire, attachment, greed rage like fire.
Though my body remains in isolated mountain retreat,
My mind wanders into town constantly, night and day.
Without enjoying a real measure of certainty in myself,
Thinking to act for other’s benefit is just a fairytale.
Although it is impossible that the Three Jewels betray me,
Due to my weak devotion, I fear I will betray myself.
Thus, although I am without the wrong view
Of not believing in the guru and the sacred dharma,
In these bad times we sentient beings are busily perfecting our bad karma,
Knowing, heedlessly, falling under the sway of unawareness;
Failing to maintain mindfulness, we suffer a great loss.
Right now, when I examine myself, I see
That everything I have done has only added on to my confusion,
That all my thinking has been stained by the obscuring emotions and by grasping.
Not seeing that even my virtuous acts are polluted with negativities
Where else is there to end up but in the lower realms?
As for the way I behave and what I’ve done,
Bringing these to mind, I am sickened.
Looking to others, I am only more discouraged;
There are no friends to benefit and ease my mind.
If I can not take care of myself now,
Others can not give me refuge when hope is exhausted
And I am in the hands of the messengers of the Lord of Death.
To wait for a rescue that can never come,
Is not that self-deception?
Thus, with shame and remorse recognizing my own errors,
Whatever offences against Dharma have occurred, whatever samaya transgressions and violations,
I will not try to conceal from those with wisdom vision.
From the bottom of my heart, I confess; with your compassion, please endure me.
Be my refuge from the danger of the precipitous, errant path;
Grant the deliverance of finding the perfect, liberating path.
My whole life has been spent practicing this and practicing that
With nothing in my hands to show for it, no attainment.
From now on, avoiding the miserable path of knowing much,
And missing the one thing I need why not go on the path of knowing the one thing that frees all?
Certain, unfailing hope, sole, supreme Lord upon whom I rely,
Root guru who combines all refuges in one,
I supplicate you with devotion and one-pointed mind;
Supreme refuge, lord of greatest kindness, take hold of me with your compassion.
Grant your blessing that I be able to see my own faults.
Grant your blessing I have no wish to see the faults of others.
Grant your blessing evil, cruel, and vicious thoughts be pacified.
Grant your blessing wholesome thoughts arise deep from within.
Grant your blessing desire may lessen and contentment increase.
Grant your blessing I remember the uncertainty of the time of death.
Grant your blessing I be unconcerned at the time of death.
Grant your blessing I develop trust in Dharma.
Grant your blessing I practice impartial pure perception.
Grant your blessing I develop unfabricated devotion and respect.
Grant your blessing I persevere, seeing that I have so little time left.
Grant your blessing I be able to establish Dharma as my ultimate innermost goal.
Grant your blessing I persevere in practice, the ultimate goal of the Dharma.
Grant your blessing I free my mind-stream the innermost practice.
Grant your blessing I have no obstacles to practice
Grant your blessing the fruit of my practice may ripen quickly.
Grant your blessing all conduct with those with whom I have a karmic link may be meaningful.
Grant your blessing the duality of hope and fear be extinguished.
Grant your blessing I see non-dual wakefulness.
Grant your blessing I recognize my own innate wakefulness.
Grant your blessing I hold the dharmakāya citadel.
Grant your blessing I gain the great effortless certainty.
By means of the great weapon, Indestructible primordial wakeful awareness,
May the void life-force of saṃsāra and nirvāṇa both be severed, at once.
Then, in the unending great bliss of Vajragarvā’s 2 feast
May we always enjoy the activity that is beyond joining and parting.
In the pervasive space of evenness, even the word “suffering” does not exist—
So who ought to be striving for happiness?
In the kingdom of Samantabhadra happiness and suffering are of one taste; without grasping, they liberate of themselves.
May I attain Samantabhadra’s kingdom in this very life!