The Sādhana and Empowerment for the Extremely Close Lineage of the Long-Life Practice that Unites the Oral, Treasure and Visionary Teachings
In the sky before me appears a vajra of meteoric iron.
This unchanging, five-pronged vajra blazes with fire.
In its centre resides the Lord of Siddhas, Thangtong Gyalpo, the Iron Bridge Builder.
He appears as a hundred-year-old man, with white hair and a white beard.
He is dark red in colour and his three eyes are aglow.
He wears a white cotton robe.
He rests in equipoise in the crossed-legged vajra posture and holds a long-life vase.
Atop his head is Amitābha, Buddha of Limitless Light.
At his throat, within a blazing mass of fire, is the Wrathful King, Hayagrīva.
In his heart is Padmasambhava, his complexion white with a tinge of red.
By visualizing them clearly, all obstacles 3
And dangers, such as untimely death, are overcome,
And long-life and the unchanging vajra-body are accomplished.
Upon meeting the Mahāsiddha face to face
Devotion wells up, and so I offer this heartfelt prayer:
Hrīḥ, hrīḥ, hrīḥ! Buddha Amitābha, Limitless Light, you care for us, each and every one,
Lord Amitāyus, Boundless Life, you grant us immortality,
All-powerful Hayagrīva, you eliminate every obstacle we face,
Padmasambhava, you are our refuge in this darkest of times,
Thangtong Gyalpo, you never fail to answer our prayers.
Now, I pray to you all: dispel everything unfavourable, every obstacle,
Fill me, transform me with your blessing—grant me the siddhi of immortal life!
By reciting this prayer three times light radiates from the Mahāsiddha
And from the deities residing in his three centres,
Causing my dissipated and scattered life force,
The obstacles created by the eight classes of non-humans,
The essence of the four elements, beings’ longevity and merit,
And all the compassion of the noble ones
To gather in honey-like light rays of immortal nectar,
Which melt into his long-life vase, causing it to overflow
And enter my body through the brahma-aperture.
It fills my whole body and grants the empowerment of immortality.
oṃ amāraṇi jīvantaye guru-padma-krodha punye jñāna āyur siddhi hrīḥ hrīḥ hrīḥ
At the end the Mahāsiddha melts into light.
He dissolves into me, and I assume the form
Of the Mahāsiddha seated in the vajra’s centre as before.
Weapons stream forth from the vajra’s prongs forming a blazing tent.
I meditate on a spinning protection circle which guards against obstacles.