The Continuous Shower of Blessings A Prayer to the Lineage of the Great Perfection’s Heart-Essence of the Vast Expanse (Dzogpachenpo Longchen Nyingtik)
Emaho!
In the heavenly realm, free from all dimensions and extremes,
Is the Primordial Buddha, the dharmakāya Samantabhadra;
His wisdom play, like the reflection of the moon in water, the saṃbhogakāya Vajrasattva;
Perfect with all buddha qualities, nirmāṇakāya Garab Dorje;
To you I pray: Grant me your blessings and empowerment!
Śrī Siṃha, treasure of the ultimate Dharma;
Mañjuśrīmitra, universal ruler of the Nine Yānas;
Jñānasūtra, great paṇḍita Vimalamitra;
To you I pray: Show me the way to make my mind free!
Padmasambhava, sole ornament of this world of ours,
Your supreme heart-disciples, Trisong Detsen, Vairotsana, and Yeshe Tsogyal;
Longchenpa, who revealed a vast ocean of wisdom mind treasures;
Jikme Lingpa, entrusted with the space treasury of the ḍākinīs;
To you I pray: Grant me fruition and liberation!
Through true renunciation and disgust for saṃsāra,
May I rely upon my vajra lama meaningfully, as though he were my very eyes,
Following his instructions to the letter, and taking to heart the profound practices he gives,
Not just now and then, but with diligent and constant application,
May I become worthy of the transmission of his profound wisdom mind!
Since all that appears and exists, saṃsāra and nirvāṇa, from the very beginning is the Akaniṣṭha pure realm of the buddhas,
Where all appearance is liberated into perfect buddha forms; all sounds are purified into mantra; all thoughts are matured into dharmakāya;
And since Dzogpachenpo is free of any effort of abandoning and adopting,
And since rigpa’s self-radiance is beyond thoughts and experience,
May I see the naked reality of dharmatā!
May all ordinary clinging to reality be totally liberated into rainbow light,
And the experiences of kāyas and tiklés increase!
May rigpa’s strength be enhanced, maturing into the fullness of saṃbhogakāya perfection!
As all perception of phenomenal reality wears out, and the conceptual mind dies into the state of total enlightenment,
May I gain the stronghold of the youthful vase body, free from birth and death!
But if I am not able to master the practice of the great Atiyoga in this life,
And this gross physical body is not liberated into the pure space of the rainbow body,
Then, when the constituents that form this life fall apart—
At the moment of death may the ground luminosity arise as the dharmakāya, pure from the beginning;
May appearances of the bardo experience be liberated into saṃbhogakāya forms;
And, perfecting the path of trekchö and tögal,
May I be liberated, as naturally as a child running into its mother’s lap!
In this great secret mantrayāna path of luminosity—Dzogpachenpo—the summit of all,
Enlightenment is to be sought nowhere but in the face of the dharmakāya.
If I'm not liberated into the primordial state by actualizing this,
Then, by taking the sublime path of the five practices of ‘enlightenment without meditation’, 1
May I be born in one of the naturally emanated realms of the five buddha families, 2
And especially in the ‘Palace of Lotus Light’, the Zangdokpalri heaven of Guru Rinpoche,
In the presence of the Lord of Orgyen himself, chief of the ocean of vidyādhara masters,
While he is celebrating the feast of the great secret mantra Dharma,
Let me be born as his favourite son or daughter,
To take upon myself the task of helping limitless beings!
Through the inspiration and blessing of the ocean of victorious vidyādharas,
By the truth of the dharmadhātu, beyond conception,
And with this free and well-favoured human form, may I train in the three activities of perfecting, ripening and purifying,
And by actualizing this auspicious interconnection, attain the state of buddhahood!