Aspiration Written on the Occasion of Princess Sangdé’s Passing in Sikkim
Namo!
Gurus, yidam deities and ḍākinīs,
Buddha, Dharma and Saṅgha,
And especially the Eight Great Close Sons— 1
All you compassionate ones: consider me, I pray!
May all the beings that exist throughout the universe,
Headed by those with whom I have a connection,
Always be free from every form of suffering,
And may they never be deprived of happiness!
May all those who ever have perceived me
And forged a connection, whether good or bad,
Be entirely unafraid of the lower realms
And find an excellent form in happy states.
In particular, may anyone who has taken refuge in me,
Respectfully out of faith and devotion,
Overcome all adversity and misfortune,
And expand their longevity, merit and wisdom!
May anyone who even so much as hears my name
Pacify all the torments of conditioned existence,
Secure an excellent form in higher realms,
And ultimately arrive at awakening!
May the factors of their enlightenment be complete,
May they be rich with the bliss that is inexhaustible,
And, delighted with the wealth of a noble one,
May they send emanations to guide living beings!
In all our lives, may we be born
With a propensity for Mahāyāna,
Meet an excellent guide and teacher,
And savour the Dharma of the supreme vehicle!
May we be free from every form of hindrance
That might impede our accomplishment of awakening.
May we be impervious to all forms of harm
And enjoy a wealth of perfect excellence!
May we be endowed with immeasurable qualities,
Such as clouds of dhāraṇī, samādhi and heightened perception,
And may all the clouds of emotional and cognitive obscurations
Dissolve into dharmadhātu—the ultimate expanse!
May we possess the supreme mind of awakening,
Emptiness with compassion as its very essence,
And, for as long as space itself remains,
May we provide infinite benefit to others!
So that all these points of aspiration
May be fulfilled without any obstacle,
May the victorious buddhas and their heirs grant their blessings
And may the force of the truth of dharmatā blaze forth!