The Blissful Path to Awakening: A Guru Yoga Visualizing the Support in the Space in Front Seven-Branch Practice
Namo lokeśvarāya!
Emaho!
In an expanse of iridescent light, the pure appearance of basic space,
Upon a white lotus and full moon-disc seat
Is my own root guru in the form of the Great Compassionate One,
Resting in the Nature of Mind (Semnyi Ngalso), white as a snow-capped mountain,
Smiling serenely, with one face and two hands, the right in the gesture of supreme generosity
And the left placed on the seat at his hip.
Between his thumb and finger he clasps the stem of a white lotus,
Which blossoms at the level of his left ear.
He wears divine silk garments and jewelled ornaments,
And the hide of an antelope is draped over his left shoulder to the level of his breast.
His hair is partly tied up at his crown,
With the crest of a precious jewel adorning its peak,
While the rest hangs loosely, all glossy and black.
He seats in a relaxed posture with his two legs crossed.
Light emanates from the three syllables at his three centres
Inviting the wisdom deities from their natural realm, who then merge in non-duality.
He is the great embodiment of all sources of refuge, clearly visualized.
Emanating bodies as numerous as atoms,
I prostrate continuously with devoted body, speech and mind.
Vast clouds of gifts, both real and imagined,
And filling the whole expanse of space, I offer.
All my misdeeds, obscurations, faults and downfalls accumulated throughout beginningless time,
I openly admit and confess with intense sorrow and remorse.
In all sources of virtue belonging to saṃsāra, nirvāṇa and the path,
I rejoice and take delight without envy.
In accordance with the temperaments of beings to be trained,
Turn the Wheel of Dharma, profound and vast, I implore you.
To all those who intend to pass into parinirvāṇa,
I pray: remain forever in order to liberate beings.
All sources of virtue accumulated throughout the three times,
I dedicate towards infinite beings’ attainment of omniscience.
Emaho!
Dharmakāya Amitābha in the realm of Sukhāvatī,
Sambhogakāya Avalokiteśvara on Mount Potalaka,
Nirmāṇakāya Padmasambhava on Cāmara’s Mountain of Glory,
Indivisible from the guru, Resting in the Nature of Mind,
To you I pray from the depths of my heart: look on me with compassion!
Inspire me to master the two kinds of bodhicitta!
oṃ āḥ mahāguru lokeśvara khasarpaṇi sarva siddhi hūṃ
From the three supreme vajras at the guru’s three centres,
Forms, mantra garlands, rays of light and flowing nectar
Flow into my own three centres, gradually and all at once.
Obscurations are purified, and I receive empowerment, blessings and attainments.
Rays of light shine from the guru’s form and flood the whole of space.
They illuminate the infinite ocean of realms,
Make offerings to the noble ones, gather their blessings, and purify the sufferings of the six classes of beings.
The whole world—environment and inhabitants—becomes the realm and kāya of Noble Avalokiteśvara,
In which everyone exclaims the great sound of the mantra
Continuously without interruption, so that ordinary body, speech and mind
Become inseparable from Noble Avalokiteśvara’s body, speech and mind.
At the end, the guru dissolves into me in an experience of indivisibility.
I appear clearly in the form of Noble Avalokiteśvara,
At whose heart, upon a moon, is Hrīḥ, surrounded by the mantra garland,
From which light streams forth, filling my body and purifying misdeeds and obscurations.
In every pore of my body,
Appear buddhas and their bodhisattva heirs,
Accomplishing the welfare of beings throughout the whole of space.
Finally, all appearance as the deity, support and supported,
Dissolves into the space of clear light, and I see the very face of dharmakāya.
Then, once again, I arise in the form of the Compassionate Tamer of Beings,
And act out of an experience of the illusoriness of all that appears,
My three centres protected by the syllables oṃ, āḥ and hūṃ.