The Root Manual of the Rites of Mañjuśr
Oṁ , homage to all the buddhas and bodhisattvas
Thus did I hear at one time
Lord Śākyamuni dwelt above the Pure Abode, in an inconceivable, wondrous pavilion, circular in shape, with a congregation of bodhisattvas distributed all around, located in the canopy of the sky
There the Lord addressed the gods of the Pure Abode: {.
“Honored gods! Listen as I tell of the inconceivable, wondrous miracles of Mañjuśrī, the divine youth, bodhisattva, and great being—listen as I tell of his conduct, different types of samādhi, and magical power
his liberation, maṇḍala, and his miraculous bodhisattva manifestations
and how he is the sustenance for all beings and brings them life, health, and sovereignty
I will explain, for the benefit of all beings, the mantra subjects that completely fulfill one’s wishes
Listen well and duly reflect upon it—I will now tell you about him.” {.
Thereupon the gods of the Pure Abode, folding their hands, said
“Then tell us, Lord, about the conduct of the bodhisattvas; their different samādhis and their attainment of the bodhisattva levels
their sitting upon the vajra throne, overpowering of Māra , and turning of the wheel of Dharma
their liberating of all śrāvakas and pratyeka­buddhas
their ensuring for all beings rebirth as a god or a human and the pacification of all suffering; their removal of diseases of the poor, sick, and wealthy alike
their invulnerability to the use of all mundane and supramundane mantras
and their fulfilling of all wishes that thus makes the speech of all the tathāgatas fruitful
Lord, speak with a mind full of love and concern for our welfare, and out of pity for all sentient beings.” {.
Then Lord Śākyamuni, casting a glance with his buddha eye over the entire realm of the Pure Abode, entered the samādhi called the spreading and diffusing of the light of the pure sphere
As soon as the Lord entered this samādhi, out of his ūrṇā came an array of light rays called arouser of the bodhisattva Saṃkusumita
he was surrounded by many hundreds of thousands of millions of rays
The light circumambulated the Buddha three times and
having passed through billions of trichiliocosms and crossed as many worlds in the northeastern direction as there are grains of sand in one hundred thousand Gaṅgā rivers
it came to the world sphere called Kusumāvatī
where the tathāgata Saṃkusumita Rājendra was staying
Due to the power of his previous aspirations, Mañjuśrī was also staying there together with other bodhisattvas, great beings engaged in bodhisattva activity
Seeing this effulgence of light, he gently smiled an
addressed the multitude of bodhisattvas: {.
“This arousing ray of light, O sons of the victorious ones, has come here to wake me up
Do pay attention!” {.
Then Mañjuśrī, the divine youth, the bodhisattva, the great being, with his eyes wide and unblinking, sat facing the radiance of the ray
And this arousing ray, illuminating the Kusumāvatī world sphere with great radiance
circumambulated the thus-gone lord Saṃkusumita Rājendra clockwise three times an
dissolved into the head of the great being, the bodhisattva Mañjuśrī. {.
The divine youth Mañjuśrī then got up from his seat an
circumambulated the thus-gone lord Saṃkusumita Rājendra three times
Then, bowing his head an
placing his right knee on the ground
he spoke to Lord Saṃkusumita Rājendra: {.
“May Lord Śākyamuni, the tathāgata, the arhat, the completely awakened one, think of me
Let me go, O lord, from here to the Sahā world sphere to see Lord Śākyamuni, to honor him and serve him
Let me go so that he may instruct me in the mantra practice, the sādhana practice, and the procedure of constructing the right maṇḍala; the secrets of the ritual and the procedure of drawing the picture; and the secret mudrā empowerment into the heart of all the tathāgatas, so that all the wishes of all beings are fulfilled.” {.
Being so addressed, the thus-gone lord Saṃkusumita Rājendra said this to Mañjuśrī, the divine youth
Then, the thus-gone lord Saṃkusumita Rājendra further said this to Mañjuśrī, the divine youth
“Also, O divine youth, the tathāgatas, the arhats, the completely awakened ones, numerous as grains of sand in one hundred thousand Gaṅgā rivers, have taught and will teach again of your proficiency in mantra practice, maṇḍala ritual, the secret empowerment, the mudrās, the picture drawing procedure, the homa rite, the mantra recitation, and the regular observations, all of which fulfill every wish and bring joy to every being
They will teach of your proficiency in the vast fields of astrology and gemology; of your knowledge of the past, present, and future; and of your ability to govern and make predictions
They will teach of your mantra repetition, your ability to travel to the ends of the earth and to become invisible, and your vast knowledge of the right time and occasion for anything
They will teach how to traverse all the stages of the buddhas, bodhisattvas, śrāvakas, and pratyeka­buddhas, and all the mundane and supramundane stages without exception. They will teach the way in which you are established in the practice of all of these
So that I too may rejoice, please go Mañjuśrī, O divine youth, if you think that the time is right
You will hear these teachings in the presence of Śākyamuni, face to face with him, and you will later give them yourself
The mantra for this is as follows: {.
“Homage to all the tathāgatas whose instructions are inconceivable and perfect! “ Oṁ, ra ra ! Do remember! O perfect teacher possessing the form of a divine youth! Hūṁ hūṁ! Phaṭ phaṭ! Svāhā! {.
“This was, O divine youth Mañjuśrī, the root mantra
It is the heart essence of all the tathāgatas, and it was and will be recited by them
You will also now recite this, the all-accomplishing mantra, together with all its parts, having arrived in the Sahā world
This has been sanctioned by Śākyamuni
Here, the ultimate heart mantra is
“ Oṁ , this [mantra] is [my] homage to speech! {.} “The subsidiary heart mantra in this set is: “ Speech, hūṁ!” {.
Lord Mañjuśrī, the divine youth, being thus granted leave by Saṃkusumita Rājendra, the tathāgata, entered the samādhi called the ornament of all supernal manifestations that brings the attainment of the essence of awakening which is a product of the conduct of a bodhisattva 
As soon as Mañjuśrī, the divine youth, entered this samādhi, the world sphere with all its directions—above, below, and across—up to its farthest reaches, became filled with lord buddhas
Saṃkusumita Rājendra then said: {.} “Good, good it is, O son of the Victorious One
that you have entered this particular samādhi
No śrāvakas, pratyeka­buddhas, or bodhisattvas who are established in the perfect conduct, not even those on the tenth bodhisattva level, are able to enter this samādhi.” {.
Then Saṃkusumita Rājendra, having conferred with the lord buddhas, the tathāgatas, taught the following mantra of Mañjuśrī, the divine youth—his ultimately secret, innermost heart essence that accomplishes all purposes. This most secret, divine mantra, called One Syllable
which serves the interests of all beings, is also fit to accomplish the special mantra practice. {.
Lord Saṃkusumita Rājendra, the tathāgata, became quiet for a moment
Looking with his buddha eye over all the world spheres, he considered all the lord buddhas dwelling there
and with a mind filled with love, pronounced the mantra
“Homage to all the buddhas! “ Oṁ maṁ !
“This mantra is the ultimate heart essence of Mañjuśrī, which accomplishes all endeavors.” {.
Then Mañjuśrī, the divine youth, arose from the aforementioned samādhi and performed, in the time that it takes a strong person to bend or to extend their arm, or to snap their fingers, or to close and open their eyes, the miraculous, special samādhi called the intellect with the force of magical power , and went to the Sahā world
Having arrived there, he established himself in the palace of the gods of the Pure Abode founded upon fine jewels and gems in the canopy of the sky
Illuminating this entire realm of the Pure Abode with powerful rays of light, he entered the samādhi called the illuminator adorned with brilliant jewels. {.
As soon as Mañjuśrī, the divine youth, entered this samādhi, he manifested through the power of bodhisattva transformation, for the worship of Lord Śākyamuni, a divinely created palace sumptuously studded with many gems and adorned with jeweled parasols spanning many hundred of thousands of leagues; bedecked with divinely beautiful great bundles of silk streamers; decorated with celestial flowers, banners, flags, garlands, and jewels; and pleasant with the sweet sound of draperies of latticed wind-chimes. Also, in the act of worshiping Lord Śākyamuni, he manifested a copious rain of perfume, garlands, ointments, wreaths, and scented powders. {.
Seeing this extraordinary and marvelous display—a miracle of a bodhisattva—the hair of the gods of the Pure Abode stood on end in excitement
When, however, they saw their abodes trembling, their hearts became tormented and pained
They immediately began to wail loudly, with a sense of great urgency, “Oh, what can this be? Could it be that we are being deprived of our divine powers?
And they implored, “Please protect us, Lord
Please protect us, Śākyamuni!” {.
Lord Śākyamuni then addressed the entire assembly of the gods of the Pure Abode
“Do not be afraid, friends! Do not be afraid
Mañjuśrī, the divine youth present here, the bodhisattva, the great being, has come here from the presence of the tathāgata Saṃkusumita Rājendra in the buddhafield Saṃkusumita , in order to see, worship, and serve me. He has come to teach the conduct of great purpose, the mantra subjects, and the vast and amazing Dharma subjects.” {.
The divine youth Mañjuśrī, in turn, circumambulated Lord Śākyamuni three times and
looking at him with unblinking eyes, bowed down to his feet and praised him with these succinct words: {.
“Homage to you, the liberated one not subject to birth
Homage to you, the best among men
Homage to you, the elder of men, Who accomplishes all purposes of [mantra] conduct! {.
“Homage to you, O lion of a man, Who prevents anything undesirable from occurring
Homage to you, the great hero Who eliminates all evil destinies! {.
“Homage to you, white lotus of a man, Who is fragrant with the scent of merit
Homage to you, O lotus of a man, Who purifies the mire of the three types of existence! {.
“Homage to you, O liberated one, Who delivers from all pain
Homage to you, the tranquil one Who perfectly tames all the untamed ones! {.
“Homage to you, the accomplished one Who fulfills the purpose of all mantra practice
Homage to you, the auspicious one, The most auspicious among all auspicious! {.
“Homage to you, the awakened one Who awakens others to the complete truth of the Dharma
Homage to you, the tathāgata, The one who abides in and teaches The suchness of all phenomena, Which is devoid of conceptual elaboration! {.
“Homage to the omniscient one who is established, and is establishing others, in nirvāṇa and in the path of the three vehicles that encompasses all consciousnesses and all knowable objects, both conditioned and unconditioned!” {.} Having praised Lord Śākyamuni in his presence with these words, Mañjuśrī said
“There is, O lord, in the eastern direction beyond world spheres as numerous as the grains of sand in one hundred thousand Gaṅgā rivers, a buddhafield called Saṃkusumita 
There is a world sphere there called Kusumāvatī where the tathāgata Lord Saṃkusumita Rājendra dwells. An arhat, one perfectly awakened, perfected in wisdom and conduct, the bliss-gone one, the supreme knower of the world, the guide of people who need to be tamed, the preceptor of gods and men , he expounds the Dharma that is good in the beginning, good in the middle, and good in the end
He presented an account of the buddha activity that is profoundly meaningful, full of beautiful figures of speech, original, complete, perfectly pure, and highly polished
He is presently living and teaching all sentient beings the Dharma, the bodhisattva basket that pertains to the mantra practice, the path that conforms to the practice of the threefold path, the protection, the place of rest, the refuge, the highest aim, the well-being, and the ultimate and final cessation
It is by his command that I have arrived here in your presence, to be at your feet
Lord Saṃkusumita Rājendra, the tathāgata, asks if you are without pain and without worry, if your efforts come easily to you, and if your life is comfortable
He also said this: {.
“ ‘It is indeed wonderful that in this time of the five degenerations Lord Śākyamuni, the awakened one, has appeare
—the Dharma that consists of the threefold path and that brings about rebirth as a god or a human and final emancipation
Wonderful indeed is Lord Śākyamuni’s courage, that in this world of helpless beings he establishes them on the path that leads to escape from the three realms, and he also establishes them in the state of nirvāṇa, which is complete with boundless spiritual accomplishment and happiness
Is it not true that only the awakened ones can know the minds of the lord buddhas
How could I know how to perform the magical feats of the lord buddhas, whose miracles stem from an inconceivable, wondrous, superhuman power? How could I know of their engagement in the mental and physical conduct that constitutes their potential for the accomplishment of tasks? Would I be able to even summarize these things in hundreds of thousands of millions of eons
The accomplishments of the tathāgatas, and all their forms without exception, whether separate and distinct or altogether, should be seen in terms of unconditioned dharmas
Only you, O Lord, the tathāgata, can explain the conduct and the qualities related to the elimination of traits eliminable through the path of seeing. I cannot do that.’ ” {.
Seated on a great jeweled lotus miraculously created through his own magical power, Mañjuśrī, the divine youth, watched Lord Śākyamuni with anticipation
The latter, following the usual practice of a tathāgata, first gave by way of introduction the customary manifold preamble preceded by questions from the audience, and then he spoke to Mañjuśrī, the divine youth, the bodhisattva, the great being, with a voice as sweet as Brahmā’s, a voice that resembled the call of a cuckoo or the resounding of thunder or a drum, a voice that is fitting to a Dharma discourse and causes the bodhisattva to be accomplished: {.
“Welcome to you, Mañjuśrī
It is the manual that effects the accomplishment of the conduct of great beings; that is blessed by the buddhas; that achieves the aims of bodhisattvas
that contains the mantra topics together with the secret empowerments, mudrās, maṇḍalas, and empowerment rituals; that brings about long life, lack of illness, and dominion and fulfills all wishes
that contains all the tantras on sādhana rites; that causes one to know all minds and mental objects, the occurrences in all times, all hidden phenomena, and the kingdoms and realms in the past, present, and future—in short, the fulfillment of all the wishes of all beings
This is a mantra practice that facilitates the generation of good qualities and is the cause of the joy of beings. This manual contains instructions on becoming invisible
traveling through space
fast walking
increasing intelligence
the magic of summoning
the ability to visit subterranean paradises
the rites of assault
the obtainment of every sensual pleasure
the power to summon the multitudes of yakṣa s and yakṣiṇīs, kiṃkaras, piśācas, and bhūtas
and the power to become a child, an old person, or a youth, as required by circumstances. {.
“In short, this teaching has the power to perform all actions
it fulfills the heart’s every wish, magically manifesting itself in the magic of assault, of enriching, and of pacifying. It will be accomplished exactly according to how it is applied
Please teach now this ornament of the bodhisattva basket, this great, jewel-like, extensive manual, this treasury of teachings on the mantra practice of pure beings that was sanctioned by me and taught by all the buddhas
Teach it for the benefit and happiness of many beings, gods and humans, with all sentient beings in mind.” {.
Upon hearing this, Mañjuśrī, the divine youth, entered the bodhisattva samādhi called arousing with an array of light rays the blessing power of all the buddhas. As soon as he, the pure being, entered this samādhi, the light primarily illuminated the world spheres that were as numerous as the grains of sand in many Gaṅgā rivers, as well as all the buddhafields from the Akaniṣṭha heaven to the Avīci hell
Any beings that were experiencing pain attained a peaceful state with their suffering pacified
Having aroused all the śrāvakas, pratyeka­buddhas, bodhisattvas, and lord buddhas, the light again disappeared into the bodhisattva Mañjuśrī’s forehead
Immediately, all the lord buddhas who inhabited the buddhafields in the eastern direction were impelled by the display of the light sphere illuminating everything around
These buddhas were: {.} The tathāgata Jyotis­saumya­gandhāvabhāsa­śrī, the tathāgata Bhaiṣajya­guru­vaiḍūrya­prabha­rāja, the tathāgata Samantāvabhāsa­śrī, the tathāgata Samudgata­rāja, the tathāgata Śālendra­rāja, the tathāgata Lokendra­rāja, the tathāgata Amitāyurjñāna­viniścaya­rāja, the tathāgata Anantāvabhāsa­rājendra, and the tathāgata Jyoti­raśmirājendra. {.
The lord buddhas headed by those just mentioned, surrounded by multitudes of bodhisattvas and residing in numberless and infinite world spheres—the tathāgatas, the arhats, the fully awakened ones—all congregated in the Sahā world in the realm of the Pure Abode where Śākyamuni, the tathāgata, the arhat, the fully awakened one, was staying together with Mañjuśrī, the divine youth, and expounding the vast topic of mantras and bodhisattva conduct. {.
So it was also in the southern, western, and northern directions, and in the intermediate directions
The light illuminated there all the buddhafields that lie above, below, and across, and it obscured all the abodes of the māras
All the tathāgatas who were surrounded by multitudes of bodhisattvas and accompanied by congregations of śrāvakas, desiring to see the Pure Abode, the miraculous power of the buddhas, and the greatness of bodhisattvas, and desiring to make the instructions of the tathāgatas—the vast topics of the different types of samādhi produced by the mantra practice—shine unimpeded throughout the world, took their places. They were: {.
Subāhu , Suratna, Suvrata, Sunetra, Surata, Sudharma, Sarvārtha­siddhi, Sarvodgata, Dharmodgata, Ratnodgata, Ratnaśrī, Meruśrī, Acintyaśrī, Prabhākaraśrī, Prabhaśrī, Jyotiśrī, Sarvārthaśrī, Sarvaratnapāṇi, Cūḍāmaṇi, Merudhvajapāṇi, Vairocana­garbha, Ratnagarbha, Jñānagarbha, Sacintyārtha­garbha, Acintyārtha­garbha, Dharmodgata­garbha, Dhvajaketu, Suketu, Anantaketu, Raśmiketu, Vimalaketu , Aśeṣaketu, Gaganaketu, Ratnaketu , Garjita­ghoṣa­dundubhi­svara­rāja, Anantāvabhāsa­jñāna­rāja, Sarva­tamāndha­kāra­vidhamana­rāja, Sarva­vikiraṇa­bodhi­vidhvaṃsana­rāja, Sarva­caryātiśaya­jñāna­rāja, Lokendra­rāja, Atiśayendra­rāja, Vidhamanarāja, Nirdhūtarāja, Ādityarāja, Abhāva­samudgata­rāja, Svabhāva­samudgata­rāja, Abhāva­svabhāva­samudgata­rāja, Avipakṣitarāja, Svabhāvabha, Puṇyābha , Lokābha, Amitābha, Anantābha, Sunetrābha, Susambhavābha, Arthabhāvābha, Adhṛṣya, Amṛṣya, Akarma, Akaniṣṭha, Amala, Anala, Dyuti, Pati, Mati, Sukha, Sukhanemi, Nimiketu, Ṛkṣa, Divideva, Divya, Nābhi, Bharata , Lokaśānti, Umāriṣṭa, Dundubhi, Siddha , Sita, Ākhyadivya, Duḥprasaha, Durgharṣa, Durālabha, Dūraṅgama, Durāla, Dūrasthita, Ucca, Uccatama, Khadyota, Samantadyota, Adyota, Ṛṣabha, Ābha, Sumanāpa, Sumanas, Mahādeva, Sunirmala , Malānta, Dānta, Sami, Sūci, Cihna, Śvetadhvaja, Imi, Kimi, Kaniṣṭha, Nikarṣa, Jīva, Sujāta, Dhūmaketu, Dhvajaketu, Śvetaketu, Suketu, Vasuketu, Vasava, Pitāmaha, Pitā, Niṣkakuru, Lokākhya, Sahākhya, Mahākhya, Śreyās, Tejās, Jyotis, Kiṃkara , Samaṃkara, Lokaṃkara, Divaṃkara, Dīpaṃkara, Bhūtāntakara, Sarvārthaṃkara, Siddhaṃkara, Jyotiṃkara, Avabhāsaṃkara, Dundubhisvara, Rutasvara, Susvara , Anantasvara, Ketusvara, Bhūtamuni, Kanakamuni, Krakucchanda, Kāśyapa, Śikhin, Viśvabhuk, Vipaśyin, and Śākyamuni. {.
These and many other lord buddhas, having illuminated the realm of the Pure Abode, sat on their lotus seats
There was also a multitude of bodhisattvas there who arrived in a similar way. They were: {.
Ratnapāṇi, Vajrapāṇi, Supāṇi, Gagaṇapāṇi, Anantapāṇi, Kṣitipāṇi, Ālokapāṇi, Sunirmala , Sukūpa, Prabhūtakūṭa, Maṇikūṭa, Ratnakūṭa, Ratnahastin, Samantahastin, Gandhahastin, Sugati, Vimalagati, Lokagati, Cārugati, Anantagati, Anantakīrti, Sukīrti, Vimalakīrti, Gatikīrti, Amalakīrti, Kīrtikīrti, Nātha, Anātha, Nāthabhūta, Lokanātha, Samantanātha, Ātreya, Anantatreya, Samantatreya, Maitreya , Sunetreya, Namantreya, Tṛdhatreya, Saphalātreya, Triratnātreya, Triśaraṇātreya, Triyāṇātreya, Visphūrja, Sumanojña, Valgusvara, Dharmeśvara, Abhāveśvara, Samanteśvara, Lokeśvara, Avalokiteśvara, Sulokeśvara, Vilokiteśvara, Lokamaha, Sumaha, Garjiteśvara, Dundubhīśvara, Vitateśvara, Vidhvasteśvara, Suvakṣa, Sumūrti, Sumahat, Yaśovat, Ādityaprabhāva, Prabhaviṣṇu, Someśvara, Soma, Saumya, Anantaśrī, Lokaśrī, Gagana, Gaganāḍhya, Gaganagañja, Kṣiteśvara, Maheśvara, Kṣiti, Kṣitigarbha, Nīvaraṇa, Sarvāvaraṇa, Sarvāvaraṇa­viṣkambhin, Sarva­nīvaraṇa­viṣkambhin, Samanta­nirmathana, Samantabhadra, Bhadrapāṇi, Sudhana, Susaṃhata, Supuṣya, Sunala, Ākāśa, Ākāśagarbha, Sarvārtha­garbha, Sarvodbhava, Anivartin, Anivartita, Apāyajaha, Avivartita, Avaivarttika, and Sarva­dharmopaccheda. {.} Lord Śākyamuni dwelt with these and other bodhisattvas in the realm of the Pure Abode
There were also other bodhisattva great beings. Some, with female forms, fulfill the purpose of bodhisattva conduct throughout the infinite universe
Some embody the inconceivable magical formulae of mantras and dhāraṇīs with the power to establish the minds of all beings on the path of no return
Some take on the forms of medicinal herbs
Some emulate the ways of different types of beings, entering flocks of birds, yakṣa s, rākṣasas, or entities not designated as sentient beings ( asattva­saṁkhyāta ), such as jewels, mantras, or wish-fulfilling kings of gems
They act in a manner suitable for taming beings according to their individual capacities and take on the forms most suited to this purpose
The Lord dwelt there with uṣṇīṣa kings who grant proficiency in the Dharma based on perfect realization in accordance with the instructions pertaining to vidyārāja
They cause beings to enter the Tathāgata, Lotus , and Vajra families and all the worldly and supramundane families
They prevent beings from breaking their samaya vows, establish them on the path of the teachings, and keep the lineages of the Three Jewels from breaking up
They were: {.
Uṣṇīṣa , Atyadbhuta, Atyunnata, Sitātapatra, Anantapatra, Śatapatra, Jayoṣṇīṣa, Lokottara, Vijayoṣṇīṣa, Abhyudgatoṣṇīṣa, Kamalaraśmi, Kanakaraśmi, Sitaraśmi, Vyūḍhoṣṇīṣa, Kanakarāśi, Sitarāśi, Tejorāśi, Maṇirāśi, Samanantarāśi, Vikhyātarāśi, Bhūtarāśi, Satyarāśi, Abhāva­svabhāva­rāśi, and Avitatharāśi. {.
Lord Śākyamuni dwelt with these and other uṣṇīṣa kings, who abide in the sphere of phenomena fulfilling the heart aspirations of beings and pursuing the heart essence of all the victorious ones, in the realm of the Pure Abode. It would be impossible to list all of these uṣṇīṣa kings down to the last one
or to describe their greatness, with their inconceivable might and powers, even in hundreds of thousands of millions of eons
Therefore, they are described here only briefly in an abbreviated form. {.
The gathering of vidyārājñīs will now be enumerated: Ūrṇā , Bhrū, Locanā, Pakṣmā, Śravaṇā , Grīvā, Abhayā, Karuṇā, Maitrī, Kṛpā, Prajñā, Raśmi, Cetanā, Prabhā, Nirmalā, and Dhavalā. {.
Along with the vidyārājñīs, emitted from the infinite and unbounded form of the tathāgatas, there were others, namely
Tathāgata’s Bowl, Tathāgata’s Dharma Wheel, Tathāgata’s Couch, Tathāgata’s Splendor, Tathāgata’s Speech, Tathāgata’s Lip, Tathāgata’s Thigh, Tathāgata’s Purity, Tathāgata’s Banner, Tathāgata’s Ensign, and Tathāgata’s Sign. {.
Lord Śākyamuni dwelt with these and with other beings—the vidyārāja s and vidyārājñīs, the ceṭas and ceṭīs, the dūtas and dūtīs, the yakṣa s and yakṣiṇīs, and other sentient and non-sentient beings—uttering tathāgata mantras, created out of the Cloud of Dharma, and distinguishable by their adornments. They were themselves a product of special samādhis
surrounded by enormous retinues of hundreds of thousands of millions, vidyārāja s ranking at the top of all the groups of vidyā beings . They also dwelt in the realm of the Pure Abode
Among the vidyārāja s belonging to the Lotus family , there were: {.
The lords, Dvādaśabhuja, Ṣaḍbhuja, Caturbhuja, Halāhala, Amoghapāśa, White Hayagrīva, Anantagrīva, Nīlagrīva, Sugrīva, Sukarṇa, Śvetakarṇa, Nīlakaṇṭha, Lokakaṇṭha, Vilokita, Avalokita, Īśvara, Sahasraraśmi, Manas, Manasa, Vikhyātamanasa, Kamala, Kamalapāṇi, Manoratha , Āśvāsaka, Prahasita, Sukeśa, Keśānta, Nakṣatra , Nakṣatrarāja, Saumya, Sugata, and Damaka. {.
He dwelt with these and with other vidyārāja s, headed by Abjoṣṇīṣa, who had attained the samādhis arising from the infinite accomplishment, the Cloud of Dharma
and who were surrounded by many hundreds of thousands of millions of vidyā s and many vidyārājñīs created through the form-samādhi of the lord of the world. These vidyārājñīs were: {.
Tārā, Sutārā, Naṭī, Bhṛkuṭī, Anantaṭī, Lokaṭī, Bhūmiprāpaṭī, Vimalaṭī, Sitā , Śvetā, Mahāśvetā, Pāṇḍaravāsinī, Lokavāsinī, Vimalavāsinī, Abjavāsinī, Daśabalavāsinī, Yaśovatī , Bhogavatī, Mahābhogavatī, Ulūkā, Alūkā, Amalāntakarī, Vimalāntakarī, Samantāntakarī, Duḥkhāntakarī, Bhūtāntakarī, Śriyā , Mahāśriyā, Stupaśriyā, Anantaśriyā, Lokaśriyā, Vikhyātaśriyā, Lokamātā , Samantamātā, Buddhamātā, Bhaginī, Bhāgīrathī, Surathī, Rathavatī, Nāgadantā, Damanī, Bhūtavatī, Amitā, Āvalī, Bhogāvalī, Ākarṣaṇī, Adbhutā, Raśmī, Surasā, Suravatī, Pramodā, Dyutivatī, Taṭī, Samantataṭī, Jyotsnā, Somā, Somāvatī, Māyūrī, Mahāmāyūrī, Dhanavatī, Dhanandadā, Suravatī, Lokavatī, Arciṣmatī, Bṛhannalā, Bṛhantā, Sughoṣā, Sunandā, Vasudā, Lakṣmī, Lakṣmīvatī, Rogāntikā, Sarva­vyādhi­cikitsanī, Asamā, Devī , Khyātikarī, Vaśakarī, Kṣiprakarī, Kṣemadā, Maṅgalā, Maṅgalāvahā, Candrā, Sucandrā, and Candrāvatī. {.
These and other vidyārājñīs, headed by Parṇaśavarī, Jāṅgulī, and Mānasī, whose accomplishment is limitless, who have the nature of the space of the sphere of phenomena, and whose mental states arise due to the presence of the bodhisattva conduct and marvels—the dūtas and dūtīs, ceṭas and ceṭīs, kiṃkaras and kiṃkarīs, yakṣa s and yakṣiṇīs, rākṣasas and rākṣasīs, and piśācas and piśācīs who have taken the samaya vows of the Lotus family and perform the mantra practice—also dwelt in the gods’ realm of the Pure Abode inhabited by pure beings
Staying there, they remained wholly preoccupied with acts of worship of Lord Śākyamuni. {.
In Lord Śākyamuni’s presence, the bodhisattva Vajrapāṇi then summoned his own retinue of vidyā s, saying
“Please gather here, venerable friends—hosts of vidyā s of my retinue—krodharājas, vidyārāja s and vidyārājñīs, and great dūtīs!
Then, merely by the power of thought, all the multitudes of vidyā beings were gathered. The male vidyā beings were: {.
Vidyottama, Suvidya, Susiddha, Subāhu , Suṣeṇa, Surāntaka, Surada, Supūrṇa, Vajrasena, Vajrāntaka, Vajrākara, Vajrabāhu, Vajrahasta, Vajradhvaja, Vajrapatāka, Vajraśikhara, Vajraśikha, Vajradaṃṣṭra, Śuddhavajra, Vajraroman, Vajrasaṃhata, Vajrānana, Vajrakavaca, Vajragrīva, Vajravakṣas, Vajranābhi, Vajrānta, Vajrapañjara, Vajraprākāra, Vajrāstra, Vajradhanuḥ, Vajraśara, Vajranārāca, Vajrāṅka, Vajrasphoṭa, Vajrapāṭāla, Vajrabhairava, Vajranetra, Vajrakrodha , Jalānantaścara, Bhūtāntaścara, Bandhanānantaś­cara, Mahā­vajra­krodhāntaś­cara, Maheśvarāntaś­cara, Dānavendrāntaś­cara, Sarva­vidyāntaś­cara, Ghora, Sughora, Kṣepa, Upakṣepa, Padavikṣepa, Vināya­kānta­kṣepa, Suvinyāsakṣepa, Utkṛṣṭakṣepa, Bala, Mahābala, Sumbha, Bhramara, Bhṛṅgiriṭi, Krodha, Mahākrodha , Sarvakrodha, Ajara, Ajagara, Jvara, Śoṣa, Nāgānta, Daṇḍa, Nīladaṇḍa, Aṅgada, Raktāṅga, Vajradaṇḍa, Megha, Mahāmegha, Kāla, Kālakūṭa, Śvitraroga, Sarva­bhūta­saṃkṣayaka, Śūla , Mahāśūla, Ārti, Mahārti, Yama, Vaivasvata, Yugāntakara, Kṛṣṇapakṣa, Ghora, Ghorarūpin, Paṭṭisa, Tomara, Gada, Pramathana, Grasana, Saṃhāra, Arka, Yugāntārka, Prāṇahara, Śakraghna, Dveṣa, Āmarṣa, Kuṇḍalin, Sukuṇḍalin, Amṛtakuṇḍalin, Anantakuṇḍalin, Ratnakuṇḍalin, Bāhu, Mahābāhu, Mahoraga , Duṣṭasarpa, Visarpa, Kuṣṭha, Upadrava, Vidrava, Vidrāpaka, Bhakṣaka, Atṛṣṇa, and Ucchuṣma. {.
These and other vidyārāja s and mahākrodhas who completely tame all beings; who perform the activities of banishing, dispersing, killing, and destroying
who are generous toward worshipers; and who engage in the awakened activities of pacifying, enrichment, and assault, themselves surrounded by their own retinues of hundreds of thousands of millions of vidyārāja s, bowed, in anticipation of orders, to their vidyārāja Vajrapāṇi, who, for his part, was intently observing Lord Śākyamuni and the divine youth Mañjuśrī. All these vidyārāja s sat down on their seats in the places assigned to them according to their buddha family affiliation. {.
Also the great dūtīs, the messengers of Lord Vajrapāṇi, together with their retinues of thousands of millions of vidyārājñīs, abiding nonconceptually in their own sphere of phenomena that has the nature of the sky, gathered in that place. They were: {.
Mekhalā, Sumekhalā, Śṛṅkhalā, Vajrārṇā, Vajrajihvā, Vajrabhrū, Vajralocanā, Vajrāṃsā, Vajrabhṛkuṭī, Vajraśravaṇā, Vajralekhā, Vajrasūcī, Vajramuṣṭī, Vajrāṅkuśī, Vajraśāṭī, Vajrāsanī, Vajraśṛṅkhalā, Vajraśālavatī, Śālā, Viraṭī, Kāminī, Vajrakāminī, Kāmavajriṇī, Paśyikā, Paśyinī, Mahāpaśyinī, Śikharavāsinī, Guhilā, Guhamatī, Guhavāsī, Dvāravāsinī, Kāmavajriṇī, Manojavā, Atijavā, Śīghrajavā, Sulocanā, Surasavatī, Bhramarī, Bhrāmarī, Yātrā, Siddhā, Anilā, Pūrā, Keśinī, Sukeśā, Hiṇḍinī, Tarjanī, Dūtī , Sudūtī, Māmakī, Vāmakī, Rūpiṇī , Rūpavatī, Jayā, Vijayā, Ajitā , Aparājitā, Śreyasī, Hāsinī, Hāsavajriṇī, Lokavatī, Yaśavatī, Kuliśavatī, Adāntā, Trailokya­vaśaṅkarī, Daṇḍā, Mahādaṇḍā, Priyavādinī, Saubhāgyavatī, Arthavatī , Mahānarthā, Tittarī, Dhavalatittarī, Dhavalā, Sunirmitā, Sunirmalā, Ghaṇṭā, Khaḍgapaṭṭiśā, Sūcī, Jayantī, Ambarā, Nirmitā, Nāyikā, Guhyakī, Viśrambhikā, Musalā, and Sarva­bhūta­vaśaṅkarī. {.
These and other great dūtīs, surrounded by retinues of many other dūtīs, were all gathered in that great assembly
There were also many dhāraṇī goddesses who arise in the mind absorbed in samādhi, and who let their chastising sticks fall upon wicked beings to control them. They were: {.
Vajrānala­pramohanī­dhāraṇī, Meru­śikhara­kūṭāgārādhāraṇī, Ratna­śikhara­kūṭāgāra­dharaṇiṃdharā, Sukūṭā, Bahukūṭā, Puṣpakūṭā, Daṇḍadhāriṇī, Nigrahadhāraṇī, Ākarṣaṇa­dhāriṇī, Keyūrā, Keyūravatī, Dhvajāgra­keyūrā, Ratnā, Ratnāgrakeyūrā, Lokāgrakeyūrā, Patāgrakeyūrā, Triparivartā, Lokāvartā, Sahasrāvartā, Vivasvatāvartā, Sarva­bhūtāvartā, Ketuvatī, Ratnavatī, Maṇiratnacūḍā, Bodhyaṅgā, Balavatī, Anantaketu , Samantaketu, Ratnaketu , Vikhyātaketu, Sarvabhūtaketu, Ajiravatī, Asvarā, Sunirmalā, Ṣaṇmukhā, Vimalā, and Lokākhyā. {.
These and other dhāraṇī goddesses, surrounded by retinues of many hundreds of thousands of millions of such dhāraṇīs, all gathered in this great assembly
Through the infinite blessing of the buddhas, and the great blessing of the samādhi of the bodhisattvas, there assembled in this great gathering also venerable pratyeka­buddhas from other buddhafields where there are no tathāgatas present. Among them were both the solitary, rhinoceros-like ones and those who move among people, working for the benefit of beings. They demonstrate the way of the Dharma that involves habituation to silence
However, as their mindstreams are devoid of great compassion, they circle in saṃsāra with their minds ever weary
Their minds brim over with habitual thought patterns, and thus their previously generated bodhicitta is also tainted by habitual thinking
Their minds thus stall in progress when they reach the first, second, third . . . or any bodhisattva level up to the eighth, and they are fearful of saṃsāra, with minds ever weary
They were: {.} Gandhamādana , Samantāyatana, Samantaprabha, Candana, Kāla, Upakāla, Nemi, Upanemi, Riṣṭa, Upariṣṭa, Upāriṣṭa, Pārśva, Supārśva, Dundubhi, Upadundubhi, Lokākhya, Lokaprabha, Jayanta, Areṇu, Reṇu, Upareṇu, Aṃśa, Upāṃśa, Cihna, Sucihna, Dinakara, Sukara, Prabhāvanta, Prabhākara, Lokakara, Viśruta, Suśruta, Sukānta, Sudhānta, Sudānta , Anantānta, Bhavānta, Sitaketu, Cihnaketu, Ketu, Upaketu, Tiṣya, Padmottara, Padmasambhava, Svayambhu, Adbhuta, Manojña, Manasa, Mahendra , Kūṭākhya, Kumbhaka, Saṃlākṣa, Śaṅkara , Upakara, Śānta, Śāntamānasa, Dharma , Upadharma, Vairocana, Kusuma , Sunīla, Śreyasa, Svabandhu­dūrāntaka, Duḥprasaha, Kanaka, Vimalaketu , Soma, Susoma, Suṣeṇa, Sucīrṇa, Śukra, Kratu, Iṣṭa, Upendra, and Vasu. {.
Lord Śākyamuni dwelt with these and other hundreds of thousands of millions of pratyeka­buddhas who had entered and were established in what is taught as the “middling vehicle,” which, unconditioned and free from mental elaboration, corresponds in nature to the sky-like sphere of phenomena, which is inconceivable, unmatched, and free of aim —the pratyeka­buddhas who are basically free from attachment and anger
There was also a great congregation of śrāvakas who, in turn, were accompanied by many hundreds of thousands of millions of śrāvakas
They were: {.} Kāśyapa, Mahākāśyapa, Nadīkāśyapa, Gayākāśyapa, Uru­bilvā­kāśyapa, Bharadvāja, Piṇḍola, Maudgalyāyana, Mahā­maudgalyāyana, Śāriputra, Mahāśāriputra, Subhūti, Mahāsubhūti, Gavāmpati, Kātyāyana, Mahākātyāyana, Upāli, Bhadrika, Kaphiṇa, Nanda, Ānanda, Sunanda, Upananda, Sundarananda, Lokabhūta, Anantabhūta, Varṇaka, Upavarṇaka, Nandika, Upanandika, Aniruddha, Pūrṇa, Saṃpūrṇa, Upapūrṇa, Tiṣya, Punarvasu, Aruru, Raudraka, Raurava, Kuru , Pañcika, Upapañcika, Kāla, Sukāla, Devala, Rāhula, Harita, Upaharita, Dhyāyanandi, Dhyāyika, Udāyin, Upodāyika, Śreyasaka, Dravya, Mallaputra, Upadravya, Upeta, Khaṇḍa, Tiṣya, Mahātiṣya, Samantatiṣya, Āhvayana, Yaśoda, Yaśika, Dhanika, Dhanārṇava, Upadhanika, Pilindavatsa, Pippala , Kimphala, Upaphala, Anantaphala, Saphala, Kumāra , Kumārakāśyapa, Mahodaya, Ṣoḍaśavargika, Nandana, Upanandana, Jihva, Jihma, Jitapāśa, Maheśvāsa, Vātsīka, Kurukulla, Upakurukulla, Śroṇakoṭīkarṇa, Śravaṇa, Śroṇaparāntaka, Gāṅgeyaka, Girikarṇika, Koṭikarṇika, Vārṣika, Jeta, Sujeta, Śrīgupta, Lokagupta, Gurugupta, Guruka, Dyotīrasa, Śamaka, Ḍimbhaka, Upaḍimbhaka, Viṃśachoṭika, Anāthada, Upavartana, Nivartana, Unmattaka, Dyota, Samanta, Bhaddāli, Suprabuddha, Svāgata, Upāgata, Lokāgata, Duḥkhānta, Bhadrakalpika, Mahābhadrika, Arthacara, Pitāmaha, Gatika, Puṣpa , Pālaka, Puṣpapālaka, Puṣpakāśika, Upakāśika, Mahauṣadha, Mahojaska , Mahojas, Anurādha, Rādhaka, Rāśika, Subrahma, Suśobhana, Suloka, Samāta, and Susmita. {.
Lord Śākyamuni dwelt with these and many other śrāvakas who knew the taste of infinite freedom in the sphere of phenomena. Out of the collection of the three vehicles, they had reached the lesser one. Fleeing saṃsāra, they had immersed themselves in the contemplation of the triple liberation. They were endowed with the deportment of the four immeasurable thoughts. They focused single-mindedly, became properly ordained, and followed the correct conduct. Having adopted the right system ( sunaya ), they attained the state of nirvāṇa with its mental tranquility and freedom from mental elaboration. They too were seated in this great assembly along with Lord Śākyamuni and the others, established on the tenth level, who constitute the Three Jewels. {.
Together with them there were many female śrāvakas. Relying on the path of the unconditioned, they abided in the state of nirvāṇa—the attainment of śrāvakas
Pure and free from desire, they developed halos of light
They were all objects worthy of veneration, being repositories of good qualities who facilitate purification
The best among the multitude of beings, they were the foremost leaders of the world
They were objects of worship of gods and humans and were their fields of merit. They were the supreme leaders of two-legged, four-legged, multi-legged, and legless beings
They were: {.} Yaśodharā, Yaśodā, Mahāprajāpatī, Prajāpatī, Sujātā, Nandā, Sthūlanandā, Sunandā , Dhyāyinī, Sundarī, Anantā, Viśākhā, Manorathā, Jayavatī, Vīrā, Upavīrā, Devatā, Sudevatā, Āśritā, Śriyā, Pravarā, Pramuditā, Priyaṃvadā, Rohiṇī , Dhṛtarāṣṭrā, Dhṛtā, Svāmikā, Sampadā, Vapuṣā, Śrāddhā, Premā, Jaṭā, Upajaṭā, Samantajaṭā, Bhavāntikā, Bhāvatī, Manojavā, Keśavā, Viṣṇulā, Viṣṇuvatī, Sumanā, Bahumatā, Śreyasī, Duḥkhāntā, Karmadā, Karmaphalā, Vijayavatī, Jayavatī, Vāsavā, Vasudā, Dharmadā, Narmadā , Nāmrā, Sunāmrā, Kīrtivatī, Manovatī, Prahasitā, Tribhavāntā, Trimalāntā, Duḥkhaśāmikā, Nirviṇṇā, Trivarṇā, Padmavarṇā, Padmāvatī, Padmaprabhā, Padumā, Padumāvatī, Triparṇā, Saptaparṇā, and Utpalaparṇā. {.
These and other of the most senior of the great female śrāvakas approached in order to salute the Lord’s feet
Desiring to swell the ranks of this great gathering, which was a great miraculous feat of the bodhisattvas, they congregated and took their seats
They were eager to hear the Lord’s teaching and to become a shining example to demonstrate the accomplishment of mantra practice. {.
Lord Śākyamuni then looked at this entire gathering and
knowing with his pure heart that the realm of beings extends beyond the three times and is sky-like in nature, without independent existence, he addressed Mañjuśrī, the divine youth, as follows: {.
“Please focus your attention, Mañjuśrī, on the acts that serve the interests of beings
Enter now the bodhisattva samādhi that will delight them according to their wishes, that is accompanied by faith in karmic results, and that will fulfill the purpose of their mantra practice; the samādhi that is the seat of the Dharma, the seat of right action, and the seat of tranquility and liberation; the samādhi that accomplishes ritual procedures and brings a state of equipoise free of all conceptuality; the bodhisattva samādhi that is endowed with the complete power of the ten powers of the tathāgatas and overwhelms the power of Māra .” {.
Mañjuśrī, the divine youth, then entered the samādhi that was just described by the Lord
As soon as he entered it, he illuminated with a great light and caused to shake great trichiliocosms equal in number to the minute dust particles in many hundreds of thousands of world spheres, similar to this trichiliocosm of ours
He also displayed the use of magical powers
and then pronounced the words of his own mantra: {.
“Homage to all the buddhas who arise out of the nature of nonexistence of individual entities
Homage to the pratyeka­buddhas and the noble śrāvakas
Homage to the bodhisattvas, the lords established on the ten levels, the great beings! This is the mantra proper: {.
“ Oṁ, kha kha ! Devour, devour! O tamer of evil beings, with a sword, a club, an axe, and a noose in your hands! One with four arms, four faces, and six feet, go, go! O great destroyer of obstacles with contorted face, inspiring fear in all nonhuman beings! One who roars with wild laughter and wears a tiger skin, perform, perform all tasks! Cut, cut all the mantras [of non-believers]! Break, break all the mudrās of non-believers! Draw here, draw here all nonhuman beings! Grind, grind all the wicked ones! Cause them to enter into the center of the maṇḍala! O terminator of the life of Vaivasvata, perform, perform tasks for me! Burn, burn! Cook, cook! Do not delay, do not delay! Remember your samaya pledge
Hūṁ hūṁ! Phaṭ phaṭ ! Split, split! Fulfiller of all wishes! Hey, hey, blessed one! Why do you tarry? Accomplish all my aims! Svāhā! {.
This mantra of Lord Mañjuśrī, called Yamāntaka, Great Lord of Wrath, will crush or summon even the king Yama, not to mention ordinary beings
As soon as the Great Lord of Wrath is pronounced, all beings will come into Lord Mañjuśrī’s presence
unhappy, frightened, and terrified, their minds disturbed and their spirits broken
without any other refuge, no other protection or recourse apart from Lord Buddha and the divine youth Mañjuśrī. {.
Any beings that live on dry land, or in water, or fly in the sky, the mobile and the immobile, those enumerated as born from a womb, from an egg, from moisture, or as born spontaneously, those that are situated in the infinite world spheres up to their farthest reaches, and those that are hidden in the cardinal and intermediate directions, above, across, and below will be removed at that very moment from those places by the Great Lord of Wrath himself and brought into the presence of Mañjuśrī
The Lord of Wrath must not be pronounced in the presence of those whose desires have not been extinguished, for they also would wither and die
It should be recited by those who keep their samaya pledges, in front of a buddha image, or a caitya containing relics, or a book containing a genuine Dharma teaching
or in front of Mañjuśrī, the divine youth
It must not be recited for the sake of performing other acts in just any place, otherwise terrible omens and great ruin will come to the reciter. {.
For the lord buddhas are indeed filled with utmost compassion, and the bodhisattvas, the great beings, exclusively strive to establish beings in the practice of the insight of omniscient knowledge; enthralling all beings, they establish them in the way of the Dharma
They deliver into nirvāṇa the entire realm of sentient beings
they give instructions and establish beings on the triple path; they prevent breaks in the lineages of the Three Jewels
they illuminate the mantra practice
With minds born of the power of great compassion, they obliterate the power of Māra 
They destroy obstacle makers and keep the lords of evil in check
They increase their own power and hold back the power of opponents
They perform the acts of paralyzing, killing, destroying, chastising, burning, and gratifying
They teach the practice of their own mantra
They cause the lifespan, health, and power of beings to increase
They swiftly accomplish all tasks
They readily assume the modes of great love, great compassion, great equanimity, and great sympathetic joy
That is why the Yamāntaka mantra was now recited with a mind free from all doubt and deliberation
Summoned by the mantra were: {.} Nāga s, great nāga s, yakṣa s, great yakṣa s, rākṣasas, great rākṣasas, piśācas, great piśācas, pūtanas, great pūtanas, kaṭapūtanas, great kaṭapūtanas, mārutas, great mārutas, kuṣmāṇḍas, great kuṣmāṇḍas, vyāḍas, great vyāḍas, vetāḍas, great vetāḍas, kambojas, great kambojas, bhaginīs, great bhaginīs, ḍākinīs, great ḍākinīs, cūṣakas, great cūṣakas, utsārakas, great utsārakas, ḍimphikas, great ḍimphikas, kimpakas, great kimpakas, rogas, great rogas, apasmāras, great apasmāras, grahas, great grahas, ākāśamātṛs, great ākāśamātṛs, rūpiṇīs, great rūpiṇīs, virūpiṇīs, great virūpiṇīs, krandanās, great krandanās, chāyās, great chāyās, preṣakās, great preṣakās, kiṅkarās, great kiṅkarās, yakṣiṇīs, great yakṣiṇīs, piśācīs, great piśācīs, jvarās, great jvarās, cāturthakās, great cāturthakās, nityajvarās, viṣamajvarās, sātatikās, mauhūrtikās, vātikās, paittikās, śleṣmikās, sānnipātikās, vidyā s, great vidyā s, siddha s, great siddha s, yogins, great yogins, ṛṣis, great ṛṣis, kinnaras, great kinnaras, mahoragas, great mahoragas, gandharvas, great gandharvas, gods, great gods, humans, great humans, country people, great country people, oceans, great oceans, rivers, great rivers, mountains, great mountains, treasures, great treasures, lands, great lands, trees, great trees, birds, great birds, kings, great kings, Śakras, Mahendra s, Vāsavas, Kratis, Īśāna the Lord of Beings, Yama, Brahmā, Great Brahmā, Vaivasvata, Dhanada, Dhṛtarāṣṭra, Virūpākṣa , Kubera, Pūrṇabhadra, Maṇibhadra, Pañcika, Jambhala, Stambhala, Kūṣmala, Hārīta, Harikeśa, Hari , Hārīti, Piṅgalā, Priyaṅkara, Arthaṅkara, Jalendra, Lokendra, Upendra, Guhyaka , Great Guhyaka, Cala, Capala , Jalacara, Sātatagiri, Hemagiri, Mahāgiri, Kūtākṣa, and Triśiras. {.
These and other great yakṣa generals, surrounded by many hundreds of thousands of millions of yakṣa s, gathered together through the blessing and magical power of the bodhisattva, in that great assembly in the realm of the Pure Abode. Having assembled, they took their seats in order to listen to the Dharma
Also, the great kings of the rākṣasas, with retinues of many hundreds of thousands of millions of rākṣasas, had been brought by the Great Lord of Wrath
They were: {.} Rāvaṇa, Draviṇa, Vidrāvaṇa, Śaṅkukarṇa, Kumbha, Kumbhakarṇa, Samantakarṇa, Yama, Vibhīṣaṇa, Bhīṣaṇa, Ghora, Sughora, Akṣayamati, Saṃghaṭṭa, Indrajit, Lokajit, Yodhana, Suyodhana, Śūla, Triśūla, Triśiras, and Anantaśiras. {.} They all gathered to hear the Dharma
Also the great piśācas with retinues of many hundreds of thousands of millions of piśācas gathered there. They were: {.
Pīlu, Upapīlu, Supīlu, Anantapīlu, Manoratha, Amanoratha, Sutāpa, Grasana , Supāna, Ghora, and Ghorarūpin. {.} They all gathered to hear the Dharma
Also, the great nāga kings, with retinues of many hundreds of thousands of millions of nāga s, were brought by the Lord of Wrath through his display of the power of the bodhisattva
They were: {.} Nanda, Upananda, Kambala, Upakambala, Vāsuki, Ananta, Takṣaka, Padma , Mahāpadma, Śaṅkha, Śaṅkhapāla, Karkoṭaka, Kulika, Akulika, Māṇa, Kalaśoda, Kuliśika, Cāṃpeya, Maṇināga, Mānabhañja, Dukura, Upadukura, Lakuṭa, Mahālakuṭa, Śveta, Śvetabhadra, Nīla, Nīlāmbuda, Kṣīroda, Apalāla, Sāgara, and Upasāgara. {.
These and other nāga s, with retinues of many hundreds of thousands of millions of nāga s, gathered together in this great assembly and took their seats to hear the Dharma
Also, the sages and the great sages gathered there
They were: {.} Ātreya, Vasiṣṭha, Gautama, Bhagīratha, Jahnu, Aṅgirasa, Agasti, Pulasti, Vyāsa, Kṛṣṇa, Kṛṣṇagautama, Agni, Agnirasa, Jāmadagni, Āstika, Muni, Munivara, Ambara, Vaiśampāyana, Parāśara, Paraśu, Yogeśvara, Pippala, Pippalāda, Vālmīki, and Mārkaṇḍa. {.
These along with other great sages, with retinues of many hundreds of thousands of other great sages, entered this great gathering
Having saluted Lord Śākyamuni, they sat down in order to hear and rejoice at this basket of bodhisattva teachings explaining the purpose of mantra practice
Also, the great kings of the mahoragas entered this great gathering and took their seats
They were: {.} Bheraṇḍa, Bheruṇḍa, Maruṇḍa, Marīca, Mārīca, Dīpta, and Sudīpta. {.
Also, the garuḍa kings came together in this great assembly, with retinues of many of hundreds of thousands of garuḍas
They were: {.} Suparṇa, Śvetaparṇa, Pannaga, Parṇaga, Sujātapakṣa, Ajātapakṣa, Manojava, Pannaganāśana, Dhenateya, Vainateya, Bharadvāja, Śakuna , Mahāśakuna, and Pakṣirāja. {.
They too joined this great assembly
Also, the kinnara kings, with retinues of many hundreds of thousands of kinnaras, came to this great gathering
They were: {.} Druma, Upadruma, Sudruma, Anantadruma, Lokadruma, Ledruma, Ghanoraska, Mahoraska, Mahojaska, Mahoja, Maharddhika, Viruta, Susvara, Manojña, Cittonmādakara, Unmāda, Unnata, Upekṣaka, Karuṇa, and Aruṇa. {.
These and other great kinnara kings, with retinues of many hundreds of thousands of kinnaras, came all together for the purpose of hearing the Dharma
So did come: {.} The Sahāmpati Brahmās, the Great Brahmās , the gods from the heavens of Ābhāsvara, Prabhāsvara, Śuddhābha, Puṇyābha, Avṛha, Atapas, Akaniṣṭha, Sukaniṣṭha, Lokaniṣṭha, Ākiñcanya, Naivakiñcanya, Ākāśānantya, Naivākāśānantya, Sudṛśa, Sudarśana, Sunirmita, Paranirmita, Śuddhāvāsa, Tuṣita, and Yāma
the gods from the realm of the Thirty-Three and from the realm of the four great kings
the gods from the heavens of Sadāmatta, Mālādhāra, Karoṭapāṇi , and Vīṇātṛtīyaka ; the gods who dwell in mountains, on mountaintops, and on mountain peaks; those dwelling in Alaka, those who dwell in palaces and mansions, those who dwell in the sky, those who dwell on the earth, those who dwell in trees, and those who dwell in houses. {.
Also came the kings of the dānavas, headed by Prahlāda, Balin, Rāhu, Vemacitri, Sucitri, Kṣemacitri, Devacitri, Rāhu, and Bāhu. {.} They had retinues of many hundreds of thousands of asuras—titans with extravagant habits, great and varied wealth, and a predilection to engage the gods in battle. Because of the bodhisattva’s blessing, they also joined this great assembly in order to witness, pay respect to, and attend this miraculous bodhisattvic event
In addition, there were also the grahas and the great grahas who work for the benefit of mankind and who dwell in the sky
They were: {.} Āditya, Soma, Aṅgāraka, Budha, Bṛhaspati, Śukra , Śanaiścara, Rāhu, Kampa, Ketu , Aśani, Nirghāta, Tāra, Dhvaja, Ghora, Dhūmra, Dhūma, Vajra , Ṛkṣa, Vṛṣṭi, Upavṛṣṭi, Naṣṭārka, Nirnaṣṭa, Hasānta, Yāṣṭi, Ṛṣṭi, Duṣṭi, Lokānta, Kṣaya, Vinipāta, Āpāta, Tarka, Mastaka, Yugānta, Śmaśāna, Piśita, Raudra, Śveta, Abhija, Abhijata, Maitra , Śaṅku, Triśaṅku, Lubdha, Raudraka, Dhruva , Nāśana, Balavān, Ghora, Aruṇa, Vihasita, Mārṣṭi, Skanda, Sanat, Upasanat, Kumāra , Krīḍana, Hasana, Prahasana, Nartāpaka, Nartaka, Khaja, and Virūpa. {.
These great grahas too, along with retinues of many of hundreds of thousands of grahas, were in this great assembly
They were: {.
Aśvinī, Bharaṇī, Kṛttikā, Rohiṇī, Mṛgaśirā, Ārdrā, both Punarvasus, Puṣya, Āśleṣā, Maghā, both Phalgunī, Hastā, Citrā, Svāti, Viśākhā, Anurādhā, Jyeṣṭhā, Mūlā, both Āṣāḍhās, Śravaṇā, Dhaniṣṭhā, Śatabhiṣā, both Bhadrapadās, Revatī, Devatī, Abhijā, Punarnavā, Jyotī, Aṅgirasī, Nakṣatrikā, both Phalgu and Phalguvatī, Lokapravarā, Pravarāṇikā, Śreyasī, Lokamātā, Īrā, Ūhā, Vahā, Arthavatī, and Surārthā. {.
These nakṣatra queens, with retinues of many hundreds of thousands of nakṣatras, gathered together in this great assembly in the realm of the Pure Abode through the blessing of the Buddha and took their seats
Present were also the following thirty-six signs of the zodiac: {.
Meṣa, Vṛṣabha, Mithuna, Karkaṭaka, Siṃha , Kanyā, Tula, Vṛścika, Dhanus, Makara, Kumbha, Mīna, Vānara, Upakumbha, Bhṛṅgāra, Khaḍga, Kuñjara, Mahiṣa, Deva , Manuṣya, Śakuna, Gandharva , Loka, Sarvajita, Ugratejas, Jyotsna, Chāya, Pṛthivī, Tama, Raja, Uparaja, Duḥkha, Sukha, Mokṣa, Bodhi, Pratyeka, Śrāvaka , Naraka, Vidyādhara, Mahoja, Mahojaska , Tiryak, Preta, Asura, Piśita, Piśāca, Yakṣa, Rākṣasa , Sarvabhūtika, Bhūtika, Nimnaga, Ūrdhvaga, Tiryaga, Vikasita, Dhyānaga, Yogapratiṣṭha, Uttama, Madhyama, and Adhama. {.
These great rāśis, with retinues of many hundreds of thousands of rāśis, came to this great gathering in the realm of the Pure Abode
Having arrived, they bowed to the Lord’s feet and sat down in their respective seats
Also, the great yakṣiṇīs, with retinues of many hundreds of thousands of yakṣiṇīs, were present there. They were: {.
Sulocanā , Subhrū, Sukeśā, Susvarā, Sumatī, Vasumatī, Citrākṣī, Pūrāṃśā, Guhyakā, Suguhyakā, Mekhalā, Sumekhalā, Padmoccā, Abhayā, Abhayadā, Jayā, Vijayā, Revatikā, Keśinī , Keśāntā, Anilā, Manoharā, Manovatī, Kusumā, Kusumāvatī , Kusuma­pura­vāsinī, Piṅgalā, Hārītī, Vīramatī, Vīrā , Suvīrā, Sughorā, Ghoravatī, Surasundarī, Surasā, Guhyottarī, Vaṭavāsinī, Aśokā, Andhārasundarī, Ālokasundarī, Prabhāvatī, Atiśayavatī, Rūpavatī, Surūpā, Asitā, Saumyā, Kāṇā, Menā, Nandinī, Upanandinī, and Lokottarā. {.
These great yakṣiṇīs, with retinues of many hundreds of thousands of yakṣiṇīs, bowing to Lord Śākyamuni from a distance, were present in this great gathering
Also the great piśācīs, with retinues of many hundreds of thousands of piśācīs, joined in, paying respects to Lord Śākyamuni. They were: {.
Maṇḍitikā, Pāṃsupiśācī, Raudrapiśācī, Ulkāpiśācī, Jvālāpiśācī, Bhasmodgirā, Piśitāśinī, Durdharā, Bhrāmarī, Mohanī, Tarjanī, Rohiṇikā, Govāhiṇikā, Lokāntikā, Bhasmāntikā, Pīluvatī, Bahulavatī, Bahulā, Durdāntā, Elā, Cihnitikā, Dhūmāntikā, Dhūmā, and Sudhūmā. {.
These great piśācīs, with retinues of many hundreds of thousands of piśācīs, also entered this great gathering
Also, the mātṛs and the great mātṛs, who wander throughout the world harming living beings and seizing oblatory offerings of food and garlands, joined in. They were: {.
Brahmāṇī, Māheśvarī, Vaiṣṇavī, Kaumārī, Cāmuṇḍā, Vārāhī, Aindrī, Yāmyā, Āgneyā, Vaivasvatī, Lokāntakarī, Vāruṇī, Aiśānī, Vāyavyā, Paraprāṇaharā, Mukhamaṇḍitikā, Śakunī, Mahāśakunī, Pūtanā , Kaṭapūtanā, and Skandā. {.
These great mātṛs, with retinues of many hundreds of thousands of mātṛs, were present in this great assembly, calling out, “Homage to the Buddha!” {.
Similarly, the entire expanse of space with its many hundreds of thousands of beings, both human and nonhuman, sentient and non-sentient, from the great hell of Avīci to the pinnacle of saṃsāra, became open and accessible to sight
Within the totality of beings there was not a single one who would be in disharmony with another
By the blessing of the Buddha enriched with the magical power of the bodhisattvas, all these beings then saw Lord Buddha and the divine youth Mañjuśrī seated on the crowns of their heads. {.
Now, Lord Śākyamuni, having looked over this entire assembly with his buddha eye, said to Mañjuśrī, the divine youth, “Please speak, O pure being
Give a full presentation of the section on samādhi that explains the meaning of mantra practice. Present this basket of bodhisattva teachings if you think that the moment is right.” {.
Then Mañjuśrī, the divine youth, with the approval of Lord Śākyamuni, entered the samādhi called the ornament of a contiguous formation solid as fused vajras, adorned with miraculous displays of the space-like nature 
As soon as Mañjuśrī, the divine youth, entered this samādhi, he blessed the realm of the Pure Abode, which extended over many hundreds of thousands of leagues, so that it became made of vajra s
All the many yakṣa s, rākṣasas, gandharvas, mārutas, and piśācas—in short, the entire universe inhabited by living beings—became situated by the blessing of the bodhisattvas in this great palace that resembled diamond jewels and gems
and there took their seats together, without any mutual enmity. {.
Mañjuśrī, the divine youth, seeing that this great assembly had gathered, said to Yamāntaka, the Lord of Wrath 
“Ho, ho, Great Lord of Wrath, who emanates from all the buddhas and bodhisattvas
Please protect this great gathering! Protect and enthrall it
Tame the wicked ones! Awaken the gentle ones into realization
Placate the implacable ones
As long as I am teaching this bodhisattva basket that accords with my own mantra practice and contains the extensive instructions on mantra practice and the maṇḍala, please go outside and guard this gathering.” {.
Thus addressed, the Great Lord of Wrath, of extremely ugly, misshapen appearance, acknowledged the command and went outside in order to protect all the beings and to train the assembled audience in every respect. Letting out a terrible roar into the four directions, above, below, and across, he took up his position in the form of Yamāntaka Lord of Wrath , with a retinue of many hundreds of thousands of wrathful deities
Thus all beings, having become peaceful and content, did not transgress his orders
They also heard these words
“Those who would disobey this injunction, their heads will split into one hundred parts like a garland made of basil plants
For such is the power of the bodhisattvic blessing. {.
Mañjuśrī then gave a Dharma teaching on the practice of his mantra
“When a bodhisattva, a great being, possesses a single quality, his mantras become effective
What is this single quality
It is the mind that beholds all phenomena without mentally elaborating upon them. {.
“When a bodhisattva, a great being, possesses two qualities, his mantras become effective
What are these two
They are  never abandoning bodhicitta, and  having equanimity toward all sentient beings. {.
“With three qualities, his exposition of the meaning of mantra practice will be perfect
What are these three
 never abandoning any sentient being
 guarding the vows of the bodhisattva’s discipline, an
 never abandoning his mantra. {.
“When a bodhisattva, who has made the initial resolution of a bodhisattva, possesses four qualities, his mantras become effective
What are these four
 never abandoning his mantra
 not neutralizing the mantras of others
 generating loving kindness for all sentient beings, an
 suffusing his mindstream with compassion
The mantras of a bodhisattva who has made an initial resolution and possesses these four qualities become effective. {.
“Five qualities will bring the bodhisattva’s mastery of his mantra practice and his engagement in the basket of teachings to perfection 
What are these five
 frequenting solitary places
 frequenting remote, peaceful places
 not hating others
 not considering employing mundane mantras, an
 establishing others in discipline, learning, and good character. These five qualities will completely fulfill the purpose of his mantra practice. {.
“Six qualities will completely fulfill the purpose of mantra practice
What are these six
 not giving up faith in the Three Jewels
 not giving up faith in the bodhisattvas
 praising both mundane and supramundane mantras
 perceiving the sphere of phenomena that is free of elaboration
 not rejecting the sūtras of the Great Vehicle that contain profound words and meaning,  never losing heart
 pursuing the mantra practice, an
 not letting virtue decline
These six qualities will bring complete success in the practice of mantra and the knowledge of vidyā s. {.
“There are seven qualities that lead to the taking up of mantra practice that are helpful at the time of the actual application of magical vidyā s
What are these seven
They are  taking up the profound path by cultivating the perfection of wisdom
 resolving upon the bodhisattva conduct that consists in reciting, teaching, studying, and writing
 taking up the right demeanor, thoughts, recollections, and the holding on to insight, without being impeded by time, place, ritual injunctions, mantra recitation, homa offerings, vows of silence, or the practice of austerities
 entering the way of the deep teachings of the Great Vehicle through the two accumulations of a bodhisattva
 skill in the procedures of summoning the mantra deities of one’s own lineag
 cultivating great compassion, great loving kindness, great equanimity, and great sympathetic joy
 pursuing the two types of omniscient wisdom by bringing together the sphere of sentient beings, the sphere of phenomena, and ‘suchness’ through nonconceptuality
 never abandoning any sentient being
and  not seeking the Lesser Vehicle
These seven qualities lead to the perfect mastery of mantras and magical knowledge. {.
“Eight qualities will completely fulfill the purpose of the practice of mantra and magical vidyā s
What are these eight
 faith in karmic results, both seen and unseen;  refraining from investigating anything out of mere curiosity or the desire to know
 displaying magical powers made effective through the grace of a bodhisattva
 out of respect for the teacher, learning from him the undistorted mantras
 taking to heart the master’s instructions on the buddhas and bodhisattvas’ own mantra system
 keeping one’s word;  renouncing all of one’s possessions
 being able to skillfully explain the signs received in one’s sleep about suitable and unsuitable places for gaining accomplishment
 freeing oneself from all stains of stinginess, sleepiness, and dullness, and constantly practicing diligence; an
 always offering oneself to the buddhas and bodhisattvas
In short, never being complacent about accumulating the roots of virtue, donning great armor, or desiring to remove all obstacles, one will ascend the seat of awakening and experience great bliss as anticipated
One will be known as a great being and will also fall in with other great beings. One will never be separated from a spiritual friend and will be accompanied by Mañjuśrī, the divine youth, the bodhisattva
The aforementioned eight qualities will completely fulfill the purpose of mantra practice. {.
“Friends! To sum up
a person who is not separated from bodhicitta, who is devoted to the Three Jewels, who continually exerts himself with unwearied mind even if he were of extremely bad disposition, will succeed in the infinite and marvelous mantra practice of a bodhisattva as taught in the detailed chapter on my mantra, and will develop the mind that arises from this practice
It should not be known to be otherwise
Once someone has become free from dualistic thinking, he will succeed even if his original motive was mere curiosity.” {.
Then, the entire gathering, graced with the presence of buddhas, bodhisattvas, pratyeka­buddhas, and venerable śrāvakas, said these words: {.
“Good! It is good, O son of the victorious ones
This Dharma discourse, which leads beings to enter an illustrious Dharma path whose special purpose is mantra practice, has been well presented for the benefit of all beings
O divine youth Mañjuśrī, this talk that is in accord with mantra practice and complies with the requirements of a fine Dharma discourse has been eloquently presented
If any king has this chapter, which records the coming together of the audience, retold, or causes it to be memorized or reflected upon, or if
before a battle, he has it mounted on an elephant and worshiped with various flowers, incense, scents, and ointments, there we will also be present
We will bring his opponents and enemies under control, and we will destroy the armies that oppose him
Or, if anyone keeps it in their house written in the form of a book, we will grant to that son or daughter of the Buddha family—be they a king or a queen, a monk or a nun, or a male or female lay practitioner—protection, prosperity, long life, life free from disease, and the continuous increase of good fortune.” {.
Having said this, the great assembly fell silent. {.
This concludes the first chapter, describing the coming together of the audience, from this great root manual containing an exposition of the mantra practices of the Great Vehicle, an extensive textbook that is a miraculous bodhisattva display of Mañjuśrī, the divine youth
Now Mañjuśrī, the divine youth, gazing at this entire assembly
entered the samādhi called the gaze that causes all sentient beings to take up the samaya pledge 
As soon as Mañjuśrī, the divine youth, entered this samādhi, a ray of light issued from his navel
Along with many hundreds of thousands of millions of other rays
it entirely illuminated all the realms of sentient beings and
reflecting back onto the realm of the Pure Abode, suffused it with light. {.
Then the bodhisattva Vajrapāṇi, the great being, addressed Mañjuśrī, the divine youth
“Please teach, O son of the victorious ones, the full chapter on the maṇḍala called Establishing All Beings in the Samaya, which concerns the accomplishment of the practice that is common to all beings
Having taken up this practice, beings will accomplish your collection of mantras, in addition to accomplishing all mundane and supramundane mantras.” {.
Being thus requested by the lord of guhyakas and yakṣa s, Mañjuśrī, the divine youth, taught the most secret system of the maṇḍala
He displayed the magical feat called impelling all the vidyā beings 
Raising his right hand, he drew the attention of the assembled congregation by using the tip of his finger, from which emerged many hundreds of thousands of millions of vidyādhara kings
Upon emerging, they illuminated the entire realm of the Pure Abode with great light and remained there. {.
Mañjuśrī, the divine youth, then pronounced the heart mantra of Yamāntaka, the Lord of Wrath , a sole hero suitable for all activities. This mantra effects summoning, dismissing, pacifying, enriching, and assaulting. It bestows the ability to become invisible, travel through space, enter subterranean paradises, and walk with great speed. It can be used for the activities of bringing beings into one’s presence, sowing enmity among them or enthralling them, and obtaining all kinds of perfume, garlands, ointments, and lamps
Being the chief mantra in its own tradition, it can accomplish, in short, anything that it is employed for. It is called Three Syllables
It is a great hero that accomplishes all purposes
it is the Great Lord of Wrath himself. And what is it? {.
“ Oṁ āḥ hrūṃ !
This is the all-accomplishing heart mantra of the Great Lord of Wrath, prescribed by the great being Mañjughoṣa for all maṇḍalas and all types of mantra practice
It will destroy all obstacles. {.
Mañjuśrī, the divine youth, then raised his right hand and, placing it next to the head of Lord of Wrath 
said
“Homage to all the buddhas
May the lord buddhas, established in the infinite world spheres throughout the ten directions, pay heed! May the bodhisattvas with great magical powers, present throughout the limitless universe, empower this pledge!” {.
Having said this, he turned the Lord of Wrath around and dispatched him
As soon as he was dispatched, the Great Lord of Wrath went to every world sphere and
in an instant, subjugated all ill-willed beings possessed of great magical powers an
brought them into the great assembly in the realm of the Pure Abode
Having thus established them there, he assumed a form surrounded by a blaze of light an
placed himself atop the heads of the evil beings. {.
Then Mañjuśrī, the divine youth, looking at the gathering, said
“Please listen, all you respectable beings
Anyone who would transgress my samaya will here be brought into submission by the Lord of Wrath 
For that reason the words of the lord buddhas and the bodhisattvas who possess great magical powers—the words that convey the meaning of the samaya pledges and the secret mantra—should not be disobeyed
Please listen well and keep in your minds what I will tell you. {.
“Homage to all the buddhas
“ Oṁ, ra ra ! Do remember! O perfect teacher possessing the form of a divine youth! Hūṁ hūṁ! Phaṭ phaṭ! Svāhā! {.
“This, friends, is my root mantra. It is called Noble Mañjuśrī
The mudrā that should be employed with this root mantra is the so-called great five-crested mudrā. {.
“Next is the all-accomplishing heart mantra. I will now pronounce this auspicious mantra that is suitable for all actions
“ Oṁ , this [mantra] is [my] homage to speech! {.
“The mudrā that belongs with this mantra is the one called three-crested 
It increases all pleasure and good fortune. {.
“There is, in this set, also the subsidiary heart mantra
“ Speech, hūṁ! {.
“The mudrā that belongs with this mantra is also the one called three-crested 
It will magically summon any being. {.
“There is, in this set, also the ultimate, one-syllable heart mantra: “ Oṁ. {.
“The mudrā that belongs with this mantra is the one called peacock seat 
It enthralls all being
“There is another mantra, of eight syllables, most propitious
It severs the path of the threefold existence, it prevents all unhappy rebirths, it pacifies everything, it performs all activities, it brings forbearance, and it leads to nirvāṇa
It is like meeting the Buddha directly
I myself, the bodhisattva Mañjuśrī, have assumed the form of this most secret mantra for the benefit of beings
It fulfills all wishes and, merely by being called to mind, purifies the five acts of immediate retribution
Is there a need to say more
So, what is this mantra? {.
“ Oṁ, āḥ ! O wise one, hūṁ ! You, the sky traveler
“Friends, this mantra is my very self in the form of the eight syllables. It is a great hero
the ultimately secret heart mantra that is like buddhahood itself
It can, in short, help with any task. The extent of its qualities cannot be described in full even in many hundreds of thousands of millions of eons
There is also a mudrā that belongs with it—it is called great fortitude , and it fulfills all aspirations. {.
“There is also, in this set of mantras, a summoning mantra
“ Oṁ, he he ! O divine youth! You [assume] every form to awaken childish beings through speech. Please come, O lord, come! You, who playfully hold the blue lotus of the divine youth, please remain in the center of the maṇḍala, please do! Please remember your samaya pledge! You are a perfect teacher, hūṁ ! Do not delay! Act! Phaṭ, svāhā! {.
“This mantra calls upon Lord Mañjuśr
and also summons all beings—all bodhisattvas, all pratyeka­buddhas, venerable śrāvakas, gods, nāga s, yakṣa s, gandharvas, garuḍas, kinnaras, mahoragas, piśācas, rākṣasas, and all spirits. {.
“Should one incant sandalwood water seven times and throw it upward, downward, across, and all around in the four directions, all the buddhas and bodhisattvas will come, along with Mañjuśrī himself with his retinue, all the mundane and supramundane mantra deities, the entire host of spirits, and all beings. {.
“Homage to all the buddhas, the perfect teachers
“ Oṁ, dhu , be steady, be steady! Remain within the fragrant flame of incense, hūṁ ! Remember your samaya! Svāhā! {.
“Having blended together sandalwood, camphor, and saffron, one should offer it as incense to the tathāgatas, all the bodhisattvas, and all beings. Their minds gratified by the incense, they will all be drawn to it
The mudrā that belongs with this mantra is called garland of lotuses 
This auspicious mudrā attracts all sentient beings
This is the mudrā of ritual activity, called garland of lotuses. {.
“When all the buddhas and bodhisattvas, and also all sentient beings, have arrived, one should prepare a welcome offering
Having infused water with camphor, sandalwood, and saffron, one should mix into it the flowers of royal jasmine, sacred jasmine, or Arabian jasmine; the blossoms of the pannay tree, cobra’s saffron tree, bulletwood tree, and the flowers of crepe jasmine; or any other fragrant flowers that may be in season
One should present the welcome offering while saying the following mantra: {.
“Homage to all the buddhas, the perfect teachers! The mantra is
“ He, he , O greatly compassionate one who assumes all forms! Please accept the welcome offering and let [the others] accept it. Remember your samaya pledge! Endure, endure! Enter into the center of the maṇḍala and let [the others] enter! You who have compassion for all beings, please take, take [this offering], hūṁ! Svāhā to the one who abides in space! {.
“The mudrā that belongs with this mantra is called the complete ; it is steadfast and suitable for all beings
There is also, in this set, the mantra of perfume: {.
“Homage to all the buddhas! Homage to the tathāgata Glorious with Surrounding Fragrance and Light
“ Gandhā, Gandhā! Rich in fragrance! You who gratify with fragrance! Take this perfume, take! Svāhā to the one who abides in equanimity! {.
“In this set there is also the mudrā that fulfills all hopes called blossom 
and a mantra of flowers, which is as follows: {.
“Homage to all the buddhas, the perfect teachers! Homage to the tathāgata Saṃkusumita Rājendra! The mantra is: “ Kusumā, Kusumā! Rich in flowers! Dwelling in the flower palace with an abundance of flowers! Svāhā
“One should burn incense while saying the mantra of incense given above. {.
“Paying homage to all the buddhas, Inconceivable and marvelous in form
I will now proclaim the bali mantra, As taught by the completely awakened ones. {.
“Homage to all the buddhas and bodhisattvas, the perfect teachers! The mantra is
“ He, he ! O venerable great being with the gaze of the Buddha! Do not delay! Please take this bali and let [the others] take it! Hūṁ, hūṁ ! You with all [forms]! Ra ra, ṭa ṭa! Phaṭ! Svāhā! {.
“One should offer, with the above mantra, bali of food that satisfies all the senses
In this set there also is a mudrā called spear , which wards off all evildoers
“Homage to all the buddhas, the perfect teachers who remove the darkness of ignorance
Homage to the tathāgata Splendid with Light and Fragrance All Around
“ He, he ! O venerable lord with a body adorned with hundreds of thousands of rays of light! Please manifest [yourself] magically, please do! O great bodhisattva with a body illuminated by radiating light! Please frolic and play! Behold [with compassion] the totality of beings, behold! Svāhā! {.
“This is the mantra of lamps; with it, one should offer butter lamps
The mudrā that belongs with it is called beholder of all beings 
“Homage to all the buddhas, the perfect teachers! The mantra is
“ Burn, burn! Set ablaze, set ablaze! Huṁ! {.
“This is the mantra that produces fire
The mudrā that belongs with this mantr
It is famed throughout the world and illuminates all beings with light
It has been taught before by the best among sages to the bodhisattva Dhīmat.” {.
Then Mañjuśrī, the divine youth, said this to the bodhisattva Vajrapāṇi: “These mantric formulae, O lord of guhyakas, are most esoteric and require secrecy. {.
“There is, known to belong to your buddha family, A wrathful and terrifying son, Whose every mantra, without exception, Yields results for the wise. {.
“His name is Mūrdhaṭaka and he belongs To both the Vajra and the Lotus families
The following formula is now taught For the sake of invoking his power to expel. {.
“Homage to all the buddhas and bodhisattvas, the perfect teachers
“ Oṁ , act, act! Please carry out my task! Break all the troublemakers, break! Burn all the vajravināyakas, burn! Mūrdhaṭaka, you who bring death! One with misshapen form! Cook, cook all miscreants! Bringer of the death of Mahāgaṇapati! Bind, bind all the spirits who cause possession! O six-faced, six-armed, six-footed one! Please summon Rudra! Summon Viṣṇu! Summon the gods, Brahmā and so forth! Do not delay, do not delay! Protect, protect! Enter into the center of the maṇḍala! Remember your samaya pledge! Hūṁ hūṁ! Phaṭ phaṭ! Svāhā! {.
“This mantra, O supreme lord of guhyakas, which is supremely secret, is called Six-Faced Mañjuśrī of Great Courage
He is the Great Lord of Wrath himself, the destroyer of all obstacle makers
As soon as it is recited, even the bodhisattvas established on the tenth bodhisattva level will flee, not to mention wicked trouble makers
As soon as it is recited, great protection is effected
The mudrā that belongs with it is called great spear; it destroys all obstacles
The following is the heart mantra of this Lord of Wrath: {.
“ Oṁ, hrīṁḥ, jñīḥ ! You with contorted face, huṁ ! Destroy all the enemies! Paralyze them! Phaṭ phaṭ! Svāhā
“With this mantra one can afflict all enemies with severe pain or quartan fever
But if one keeps reciting for as long as one likes, or until loving kindness or compassion arise, the target will not be freed at the end of the recitation and will die
Thus, this should only be performed on enemies of the Three Jewels and not on others with peaceful minds. {.
“One should also employ the mudrā great spear
In this set there is also a subsidiary heart mantra
“ Oṁ, hrīṁḥ ! O Kālarūpa! Huṁ, khaṁ! Svāhā! {.
“Only the great spear mudrā should be employed
One will be able to deal with any wicked being that one wants to
There is also a supreme heart mantra, rich in the blessing of all the buddhas, consisting of just one syllable: {.
“ Hūṁ
“This mantra accomplishes all ritual activities
With this mantra, too, only the great spear mudrā should be employed
It will put an end to all misfortune, and will enthrall all beings
In short, this mantra, the Lord of Wrath , can be employed in all ritual activities
It should be recited, especially at the time of the accomplishment, at the center of the maṇḍala. {.
“The following are the mantras of dismissing
“Homage to all the buddhas, the perfect teachers
“ Win a victory, an auspicious victory, O most compassionate [lord] whose nature is everything! Go, go to your own abode and dismiss [also] all the buddhas with their retinues. Cause them to return to their respective dwellings. Remember the pledge. May the words of [these] mantras fulfill my every purpose. Make my wishes come true, svāhā! {.
“The above mantra of dismissing can be employed in all ritual activities
The accompanying mudrā is called auspicious seat 
With this mudrā one should provide the seat
The dismissal is effected after mentally reciting the above mantra seven times. {.
“Mastery of this mantra is useful for all mundane and supramundane maṇḍalas and mantras
It is to be applied to the observances at the time of samaya recitation.” {.
Then Mañjuśrī, the divine youth, again directed his gaze at the Pure Abode and the great assembly gathered there
and taught in full the section on the mantras of the host of vidyā s from his own great retinue-circle: {.
“Homage to all the buddhas, the perfect teachers
“ Oṁ riṭi svāhā
“This vidyā, Keśinī by name, is an attendant of Mañjuśrī and may be employed in all rites
When combined with the great five-crested mudrā, she may be employed in all rites involving poison. {.
“Homage to all the buddhas, the perfect teachers
“ Oṁ niṭi
“This vidyā , Upakeśinī by name, may be employed in all rites
When combined with the mudrā budding blossom , she may be employed in all rites involving demonic possession. {.
“Homage to all the buddhas, whose conduct is impeccable
“ Oṁ niḥ
“This vidyā, Nalinī by name, Is useful in all ritual activities
When combined with the mudrā auspicious seat, She will certainly summon yakṣiṇīs. {.
“Homage to all the buddhas, Whose forms are inconceivable
“ Oṁ jñaiḥ svāhā
“When combined with the mudrā spear, This vidyā will kill all the ḍākinīs. {.
“This vidyā, Kapālinī by name, Was taught by Mañjughoṣa. The buddhas perpetually praise Her divine form. {.
“Homage to all the buddhas, the followers of impeccable paths
“ Oṁ , Varadā! Svāhā
“With a propitious attitude, One should combine this vidyā with the mudrā three-crested
This vidyā goddess assumes many forms And swiftly bestows good fortune. {.
“Homage to all the buddhas, Whose forms are wondrous and inconceivable
“ Oṁ bhūri svāhā
“When combined with the mudrā spear, This vidyā will remove all fever. {.
“Homage to all the buddhas, Whose forms are wondrous and inconceivable
“ Oṁ ture svāhā
“This vidyā , Tārāvatī by name, Is proclaimed to be effective in all rites
When combined with the mudrā wand of power, It will destroy obstacles. {.
“Homage to all the buddhas, Whose forms are wondrous and inconceivable
The next vidyā is: “ Oṁ , Vilokinī! Svāhā
“This vidyā , Lokavatī by name, Can enthrall the entire world
When combined with the mudrā the mouth, It will grant every type of enjoyment. {.
“Homage to all the buddhas, Whose forms are wondrous and inconceivable
The next vidyā is: “ Oṁ , you are the totality [of things], the source of everything, possessed of all forms! Summon, summon! Enter [them], enter! Remember your pledge! Ru ru ! Please remain! Svāhā! {.
“This vidyā , Mahāvīryā, Was taught by guides of the world
When combined with the fangs mudrā, She, the auspicious, enters all weapons
She is a granter of boons, And proclaimed as the totality of all beings. {.
“Homage to all the buddhas, Whose forms are wondrous and inconceivable
“ Oṁ , you with the white, splendorous body! Svāhā! {.
“When combined with the mudrā peacock seat, This vidyā may be employed in all rites. She is called Mahāśvetā, the brilliantly white one
With her wondrous, inconceivable form, She brings prosperity and happiness to the world, Enthralling both men and women. {.
“Homage to all the buddhas, Whose forms are wondrous and inconceivable
The next vidyā is: “ Oṁ, khi khiri khi riri ! The wrinkled one! Paralyze, smash, stupefy, and enthrall all enemies! Svāhā! {.
“This vidyā , Mahāvidyā, Is said to be a yoginī
When used in combination with the mudrā the mouth, She can tame wicked beings. {.
“Homage to all the buddhas, The followers of impeccable paths
The next vidyā is: “ Oṁ, Śrī! {.
“This vidyā , Mahālakṣmī, Was taught by the protectors of the world
When combined with the mudrā hollow space, She will grant the rank of a great king. {.
“Homage to all the buddhas, The givers of fearlessness to all beings
The next vidyā is: “ Oṁ , Ajitā! One with a youthful form! Come, come! Help me with my affairs! Svāhā! {.
“Her name is Ajitā, and she is A girl of royal bearing arisen from ambrosia
When combined with the mudrā complete, She will restrain all one’s enemies. {.
“Homage to all the buddhas, Whose forms are wondrous and inconceivable
The vidyā of the four sisters is: “ Oṁ, Jayā, svāhā! Vijayā, svāhā ! Ajitā, svāhā ! Aparājitā, svāhā! {.
“These attendants upon bodhisattvas Are referred to as the four sisters
They wander the breadth of the earth, Showing favor to living beings. {.
“They are accompanied by their brother, Who is referred to by the name Tumburu
They travel in boats, Dwelling on the water
When this vidyā is combined with the mudrā the fist, It will completely fulfill all wishes. {.
“Homage to all the buddhas, The supreme masters of the world
The mantra of Mañjuśrī- Kārttikeya is: “ Oṁ , divine youth! Great prince, play, play! O six-faced one, authorized by the bodhisattvas! Mounted on a peacock seat and raising your hand with a spear in it! Your color is red and you are fond of red fragrances and unguents. Kha kha ! Eat, eat, eat! Huṁ ! Dance, dance! Your images are worshiped with red flowers. Please remember your samaya! Move about, move! Stir them up, do, do! Quick, quick! Don’t delay! Carry out all my tasks, do! You with a bright and colorful form, remain, remain, huṁ ! You have the authorization from all of the buddhas, svāhā !” {.
The bodhisattva Mañjughoṣa, the protector, Spoke these words And the entire earth shook all around In six different ways. {.
At that moment, this terrifying son of Maheśvara Arrived in this world for the benefit of all beings, To restrain every wicked being, And for the sake of those to be trained. {.
“The mantra of Skanda, who is marked with The distinguishing marks of the planet Mars, Should be recited in a soft voice And with the mind filled with compassion. {.
“He is a magnanimous bodhisattva, Acting for the benefit of naive beings
Since he is engaged in virtuous conduct, He wanders everywhere throughout the world. {.
“When his mantra is combined with the mudrā shaft of a spear, This magnanimous being can bring fort
Even the state of Brahmā, and so forth, Let alone the state of a human being. {.
“In short, all deafness and dumbness Can be destroyed by this divine youth
For his mantra, when pronounced, Is Mañjuśrī- Kārttikeya himself. {.
“This bodhisattva has arrived in this world With the desire to show kindness to beings
The mantra called Three Syllables Has been taught as his heart mantra. {.
“He is completely dedicated to bringing enjoyments In order to benefit all beings
Combined with the mudrā shaft of a spear, This three-syllable mantra may be used in all rites. {.
“ Oṁ hūṁ jaḥ
“The above mantra, in short, Will bring about birth as a human. {.
“Homage to all the buddhas, With their forms all radiant
The auxiliary heart mantra of Kārttikeya is: “ Oṁ , you disfigured graha! Huṁ phaṭ, svāhā! {.
“When this subsidiary heart mantra is combined, Optionally, with the mudrā spear, It will ward off spirits, including grahas, As well as the mātṛs. {.
“This mantra will produce results When combined with any of the above mudrās
It will frighten away evil beings And release beings from their possession. {.
“This divine youth called Mañjuśrī- Kārttikeya is an attendant of Mañjuśrī, the divine youth
He may be employed in all rites
By merely reciting him, he will accomplish all tasks
frighten any being away, summon it, enthrall it, cause it to wither, or smash it; or, he will bring whatever the practitioner who has mastered his mantra may desire. {.
“Homage to all the buddhas, the perfect teachers
The mantra of Brahmā is: “ Oṁ , Brahmā, good Brahmā! You with infinite energy and splendor! Bring peace, svāhā! {.
“This mantra is the great Brahmā; He has been taught by the bodhisattva [Mañjuśrī]
Living beings can attain soothing calm The very moment they recite it. {.
“If, in addition, the five-crested mudrā is employed, Good fortune will soon follow
It is taught in all rites of assault On the authority of the Atharva Veda
This procedure has been concisely taught here In its abridged form. {.
“Homage to all the buddhas, the perfect teachers
The mantra of Viṣṇu is: “ Oṁ , you with a garuḍa for a mount! Holding a discus in your hand! The four-armed one! Hūṁ hūṁ ! Remember your samaya! Bodhisattva [Mañjuśrī] is commanding you, svāhā! {.
“Commanded by Mañjughoṣa, He, the peaceful one, will promptly accomplish the assigned task. In his form of Viṣṇu, he will expel spirits From the bodies of living beings. {.
“When employed in conjunction with the mudrā three-crested, He will promptly and resolutely carry out his tasks
Whatever elaborate rites Were expounded in Vaiṣṇava tantras Had been taught by Mañjughoṣa As the means to guide sentient beings. {.
“Homage to all the buddhas, the perfect teachers! The mantra of Śiva is
“ Oṁ , great Maheśvara, lord of living beings! Having a bull for an emblem! With your matted hair hanging down from a topknot, and your form ash-colored with [the dusting of] white ashes! Hūṁ, phaṭ phaṭ ! Bodhisattva [Mañjuśrī] is commanding you, svāhā! {.
“This mantra has been proclaimed by me, Wishing to benefit living beings
Used in combination with the mudrā spear, It will destroy all evil spirits. {.
“The old rites of [Śiva], Which I formerly taught, Are described, by beings who dwell On the surface of this earth, as Śaivite
Different rites of great value, taught by me, Can be found in the Śaiva tantras. {.
“Homage to all the buddhas, the perfect teachers
The mantra of Vainateya is: “ Oṁ , bird, great bird! With your wings spread like lotuses! Destroyer of all serpents! Kha kha ! Devour, devour! Remember your samaya, hūṁ ! Remain! Bodhisattva Mañjuśrī is commanding you, svāhā! {.
“This mantra is intensely potent
It is known by the name Vainateya. It is the supreme tamer of those who are difficult to tame And the destroyer of the poison of snakes. {.
“Used in combination with the great mudrā, It kills the evil and the cruel ones. It will cure poison without a doubt, Whether it is of animate or inanimate origin. {.
“Commanded by the bodhisattva [Mañjuśrī], This king of birds, great in splendor, Travels to different places in the form of a garuḍa To train sentient beings by skillful means. {.
“Whatever elaborate rites Were expounded in the Garuḍa tantras Were all taught by me alone For the good of sentient beings. {.
“That garuḍa bird is a bodhisattva Who has arrived in this world in order to guide beings
He wanders around in a bird’s form To destroy the poison of serpents. {.
“Whatever worldly mantras there are, They have been taught in this manual of rites
I apply them in whatever way is necessary In order to guide sentient beings. {.
“As for the mantras of the tathāgatas Of both the Vajra or the Lotus families, They have been taught In this extensive manual and also before. {.
“Just as a mother enthusiastically plays With her child in various ways, In the same way I assume different mantra forms For the sake of naive beings. {.
“What was previously taught by those of the ten powers I have now taught
The entire subject matter of the mantra system Has also been explained by the divine youth of great splendor. {.
“The verses sung by the supreme victors, And those sung by the sons of those of the ten powers, Have also been sung by Mañjughoṣa In many wondrous and inconceivable forms.” {.
Then Mañjuśrī, the divine youth, gazing at the realm of the Pure Abode and the great gathering that had assembled there, entered the samādhi called the one that animates all samayas 
When this samādhi is entered, every being develops the intention to engage in conduct to liberate all sentient beings. {.
As soon as Mañjuśrī, the divine youth, entered this samādhi, the entire realm of the Pure Abode changed, by way of a wondrous and inconceivable transformation through his bodhisattva power, into a beautiful maṇḍala adorned with ornaments of jewels and gems of many colors. None of those who have undertaken the conduct of pratyeka­buddhas or venerable śrāvakas, nor any of the bodhisattvas, these mighty lords established on the tenth level, would be able to paint or supervise the painting of such a maṇḍala, so what need is there to mention ordinary people? {.
When they beheld Mañjuśrī, the princely youth, established in the state of accomplishment of the samaya of this divine, noble maṇḍala, all the blessed buddhas, pratyeka­buddhas, venerable śrāvakas, bodhisattvas established on the tenth level, crown princes consecrated to kingship, and all those who undertook their respective conduct including beings that are free from or subject to karmic influences perceived themselves, through the blessing of the divine youth Mañjuśrī, as being part of this inconceivable maṇḍala arisen as the consequence of buddha or bodhisattva activity through the mental power of his special samādhi
It is not possible for ordinary people even to visualize this maṇḍala in their minds, let alone paint it or supervise a painting of it. {.
Then Mañjuśrī, the divine youth, addressed the beings who were about to enter the samaya of the maṇḍala of this great assembly as follows: “Listen, friends
This samaya must not be violated even by the tathāgatas and the bodhisattvas, let alone by other beings, be they noble or not.” {.
Then Mañjuśrī, the divine youth, spoke to Vajrapāṇi, the general of the guhyakas
“Mentally generated samayas beyond the scope of humans have been taught before, O son of the victorious ones
But I will now teach the samaya of the completely liberated tathāgatas, suitable for humans, whereby beings, once they have entered it, will attain the accomplishment of all worldly and transcendent mantras.” {.
Vajrapāṇi, the general of the guhyakas, replied to Mañjuśrī, the divine youth
“Speak, speak, O son of the victorious ones, if the time seems right to you! {.
“Once the protector of the world, The Lion of the Śākyas, had entered into perfect nirvāṇa
You created a maṇḍala here on earth That is, for beings, like awakening itself. {.
“For, when this maṇḍala is merely seen, One will attain, in this world, the accomplishment of mantra
But if the rite is corrupted out of ignorance, Or if one does not master the samaya, {.
“One will not accomplish the mantras, Even though one may be as great as Brahmā
If one does not apply oneself to this tantra And does not meet with its teaching on the samaya, {.} “One will not accomplish the mantras, Even if one exerts oneself again and again
If one’s application of the samaya is corrupt, Then even if one has the perseverance of Śakra, {.} “One will not accomplish the mantras
How then could the humans on earth
However, when one knows the true teaching on the samaya And performs the activities pertaining to conduct, The mantras will be accomplished as soon as they are recited, Be they worldly or noble. {.
“One who has entered the maṇḍala of Mañjughoṣa Will be able to accomplish all activities
One will definitely attain the accomplishment of mantra Just as in the teachings of the divine youth.” {.
At that moment, Vajrapāṇi, the general of the guhyakas, supplicated the great being Mañjuśrī
“Ho, ho, great bodhisattva! Please teach concisely the maṇḍala procedure for the benefit of all beings.” {.
Being thus requested by the general of the guhyakas, Mañjuśrī, the divine youth, commenced teaching the maṇḍala procedure for the benefit of all beings. {.
“To start, on a bright fortnight of the month of Caitra or Vaiśākha, which is a ‘fortnight of miracles,’ on an auspicious day, after ascertaining the favorable positions of the planets and when the moon is in the right constellation, either on the first day of the bright fortnight or during the full moon, or at some other time, other than the rainy months, one should consecrate the ground in the morning. {.
“One should take one’s quarters in a city, or where oneself or the maṇḍala master lives
or by a river that flows into the ocean, or near an ocean shore that is to the northeast of the city, neither too near nor too far from where the maṇḍala master lives
One should build there a hut of leaves and stay there alone for a period of a week or two. {.
“There, one should choose a place on the ground that is clean, covers a square area measuring sixteen or twelve cubits across, and is free from stones, gravel, ash, coals, chaff, eggshells, and bones. Having cleaned and prepared this place well, one should sprinkle it using water that is free of living organisms and mixed with the five products of the cow, or water mixed with sandalwood, camphor, and saffron
This water should be incanted one thousand and eight times with Yamāntaka, the Lord of Wrath , recited while forming the great five-crested mudrā. One should throw the water in the four cardinal and four intermediate directions, upward, downward, horizontally, and all around the area. {.
“This square area on the ground with four equal sides may be sixteen, twelve, or eight cubits across
sixteen cubits is the largest size
twelve the medium size
and eight cubits is the smallest
Such a maṇḍala has been proclaimed by the all-knowing ones to be of three kinds
the largest is for those who desire kingship, the medium serves for bringing enjoyments, and the smallest, which merely safeguards the samaya, can be used in all activities as it is auspicious. {.
“One should thus draw the maṇḍala in the size that one desires, and excavate its area to the depth of two cubits
If one sees stones, coals, ashes, bones, hairs, or any other products of living beings, one should dig at another location. It ought to be a place where one will not be obstructed or disturbed
If such a place is difficult to find, one should go to a mountaintop, or dig the layers of sand, or other soil, on the beach of an estuary, the sea, or a large river
After examining the place with great care, cleaning it, and removing all living creatures, one should draw the outline. {.
“One should further smear this entire area with the five products of the cow mixed with water uncontaminated by living organisms and fill it with unpolluted clay from a riverbank or an anthill, making sure that the clay does not contain living creatures
Once the area has been filled and well beaten, with an even surface, one should create the threefold maṇḍala as required, with a well-beaten and even surface all over
In its four corners one should plant four stakes made of cutch wood, incanting them seven times with the Lord of Wrath. Then, having likewise incanted a five-colored thread seven times with the heart mantra of the Lord of Wrath , one should completely enclose with it the maṇḍala, tracing its four-sided shape. {.
“One should trace in the same way a four-sided shape delimiting the intermediate area and another one delimiting the inner area
The maṇḍala master, standing in the intermediate area, should recite the root mantra of his own vidyā one thousand and eight times
By forming the great five-crested mudrā while reciting the root mantra the master will afford protection for his assistants and himself
After reciting, he should step outside and circumambulate the maṇḍala clockwise
Then, facing east, he should sit on a bundle of kuśa grass and contemplate all the buddhas and bodhisattvas
Then, he should completely surround the maṇḍala with kuśa grass, tracing its quadrangular shape
On the outside of it, he should keep two cows for one night without food and then have them led away. {.
“The maṇḍala master, who has completed the preparatory rites, is skilled in the art of mantra in his tantric tradition, is fully intent on the Mahāyāna goal of benefiting sentient beings through skillful means, and has fasted for one night, should prepare, with help from his able assistants and following the prescribed procedure as gleaned from scientific treatises ( śāstra ), five-colored powder, finely ground, sparkling, and well refined
Having incanted it with the six-syllable heart mantra, he should place it in the center of the maṇḍala. {.
“On the outside, he should adorn the area with raised banners and flags and four gateways. Upon supports of plantain posts he should hang clusters of fruits and have the area resound with kettledrums, tambourines, and the sounds of conchs and lutes
He should have others recite texts of the Mahāyāna sūtras, with their exalted words, containing Dharma teachings suitable for the fourfold assembly. They should be recited in the four quarters as follows: {.
“The blessed Prajñāpāramitā should be read in the south
the noble Candra­pradīpa­samādhi in the west
the noble Gaṇḍavyūha in the north
and the noble Suvarṇa­prabhāsottama­sūtra in the eastern direction
If the texts are not available, the master should instruct four Dharma reciters, learned in these four sūtras, to recite them accordingly
Then the maṇḍala master, rising up in order to listen to the Dharma, should strew white flowers of nice fragrance mixed with sandalwood, camphor, and saffron all over the maṇḍala while reciting the root mantra
Having thus bestrewn it, he should exit the maṇḍala. {.
“After seven days, he should bring in two or three highly skilled painters of sacred images—ones who rely on sacrificial food, give rise to bodhicitta, and follow the prescribed observances and fasts
The master should tie their hair into topknots while reciting the root mantra
Then, after obtaining nice and finely ground powder in five vivid colors and made from gold, silver, and various shining jewels, the master should request some great kings who follow the Dharma, very wealthy and pure, to commission the painters to do the main drawing, one which has awakening for its goal and invariably leads to such. {.
“One attains this goal of awakening through merely seeing the maṇḍala— What need is there then to speak of its bringing about the accomplishment of the mantra
After the best of the Śākyas has reached nirvāṇa, And at a time when beings have but little merit, How could such a boon be found
But yet this rite is now being taught. {.
“Seeing the misery of poor humanity, Mañjughoṣa, great in splendor, Will now briefly teach the maṇḍala With a summary of its ritual. {.
“One should color the maṇḍala Using finely ground rice grains, Brightly dyed in five colors— White, yellow, red, dark blue, and green. {.
“The maṇḍala master should take up the previously prepared powder, form the great five-crested mudrā, and seal the powder with it while reciting the root mantra
He should have the second officiating master dig a fire pit outside of the maṇḍala to the southeast, following the prescribed ritual
The pit should be two cubits across and one cubit deep, its rim with anthers like a lotus flower. {.} “A fire should be lit outside using sticks of the bilva tree for firewood and sticks of the dhak tree, as thin as the anthers of a lotus flower, for kindling
The former should be nine inches long, moist with sap, and smeared with curds, honey, and ghee
The officiant should summon the fire deity by reciting the root mantra or the six-syllable heart mantra while forming the mudrā the fist 
Having summoned it, he should use the previously explained single-syllable root mantra or the heart mantra to once again perform one hundred and eight oblations. {.
“Then the master of the maṇḍala, having tied on a turban and prepared the implements, should himself guide the skilled painters in their work. Thinking of the buddhas and bodhisattvas, he should light incense while saying the same incense mantra as previously specified. Folding his cupped palms together, he should bow to all the buddhas and bodhisattvas, and to Mañjuśrī, the divine youth
Having thus paid homage, he should fetch the colored powders and let the painters do their work
They should fill in with the powders each shape as outlined. Employing this procedure, the maṇḍala master should first supervise the painting of the blessed lord, Buddha Śākyamuni endowed with all the supreme features, sitting on a bejeweled lion throne in the realm of the Pure Abode and teaching the Dharma
When the image has been created, the assistant to the maṇḍala master should perform self-protection by reciting the root mantra and then offer bali that satisfies all spirits
He should throw it into the four directions outside of the maṇḍala and also upward and downward. {.
“After bathing, ritually pure and wearing clean clothes, he should go to the fire pit and perform the rite of protection and offer one thousand and eight oblations of ghee mixed with saffron while reciting the root mantra
Subsequently, he should sit down on a bundle of kuśa grass and remain there, reciting. {.
“He should incant white mustard seeds one hundred and eight times with Yamāntaka, the Lord of Wrath , and place them between two earthenware bowls
If an obstacle maker is perceived in any form, be it a misshapen figure, a terrible sound, wind, rain, bad weather, or any other form, the assistant should, in a wrathful state of mind, offer seven mustard seed oblations. The obstacles will then vanish
If the obstacle makers are human , he should offer five oblations
They will become paralyzed, lose their strength, and die or will immediately be seized by nonhuman beings. There is no doubt about this
Even Śakra would die swiftly, let alone human beings with wicked minds or other obstacle makers
Seized by the fear of Yamāntaka, the Lord of Wrath , they will disappear, fleeing in all directions. {.
“The assistant should remain seated at the same place, on a bundle of kuśa grass, and keep reciting Yamāntaka, the Lord of Wrath 
The master of the maṇḍala should then let the painters execute the painting of two pratyeka­buddhas, sitting in a cross-legged posture on lotus seats to the right of the painting of Lord Śākyamuni
Below the pratyeka­buddhas, two great śrāvakas listening to the Dharma discourse should be painted. {.
“To the right of them, there should be the blessed lord, the noble Avalokiteśvara, adorned with every ornament, white as the autumn moon, sitting on a lotus seat, holding a lotus with his left hand and making a boon-granting gesture with his right
To the right of him, again, there should be the blessed Pāṇḍaravāsinī, holding a lotus with her left hand and saluting Lord Śākyamuni with her right, sitting on a lotus seat, and wearing a diadem on her hair tied in a topknot, a turban of white silk, white garments, and a tightly fitting silken bodice. She should be painted with three dots made of black ash. Tārā and Bhṛkuṭī should be depicted in a similar way, sitting on their respective seats and displaying their specific postures
Above them are the blessed Prajñāpāramitā, Tathāgata­locanā , and Uṣṇīṣarājñī. {.
“The sixteen bodhisattvas should also be included
Samantabhadra; Kṣitigarbha; Gaganagañja; Sarva­nīvaraṇa­viṣkambhin; Apāyajaha; Maitreya with yak-tail whisk in his hand and looking at the Blessed Buddha; Vimalamati; Vimalaketu; Sudhana; Candraprabha; Vimalakīrti; Bhaiṣajyarāja; Sarva­dharmīśvara­rāja; Lokagati; Mahāmati; and Patidhara
Each of these sixteen great bodhisattvas should be depicted in a peaceful form adorned with all types of jewelry. {.
“The chief vidyārāja s and vidyārājñīs should all be painted in the forms and postures of the Lotus family as passed down by the tradition or described in scriptures and arranged in their respective places
On the periphery, a four-sided area should be designate
and strewn with lotus flowers; in this should be included whatever other vidyā deities one can think of. {.
“The two pratyeka­buddhas on the right side of Lord Śākyamuni, as mentioned above, are Gandhamādana and Upāriṣṭa
The maṇḍala, facing east, should have entry gates painted on all sides
On the left side of Lord Śākyamuni should be the other two pratyeka­buddhas, Candana and Siddha 
Below them should be the two great śrāvakas, Mahākāśyapa and Mahākātyāyana. {.
“To their left is the noble Vajrapāṇi in his peaceful form, dark blue like a water lily, adorned with all types of jewelry
He holds a fly-whisk in his right hand
his left is clenched into a vajra fist in an expression of wrath. Vajrāṅkuśī, Vajraśṛṅkhalā, Subāhu , and Vajrasenā should all be painted in their respective locations, wearing their specific apparel and emblems and surrounded by retinues of vidyārāja s and vidyārājñīs. Their forms, postures, and so forth should be drawn according to the tradition
To their left, a symbol of the double vajra should be painted in the shape of a square
Once painted, the following should be said: ‘In this place, where vidyā beings have not been known to assemble, may they now come to reside.’ {.
“Above them should be painted the six pāramitā goddesses and the blessed Māmakī, all of them with serene forms adorned with all types of jewelry
Above them are the eight uṣṇīṣa kings, each surrounded by a halo of blazing light
Having first formed the appropriate mudrā, the respective forms of these great cakravartin kings should be painted, golden in color, with pacified senses and adorned with all types of jewelry
Their gaze is cast slightly in the direction of the image of the Tathāgata (Śākyamuni)
These eight are Cakra­vartyuṣṇīṣa, Abhyudgatoṣṇīṣa, Sitātapatra, Jayoṣṇīṣa, Kamaloṣṇīṣa, Vijayoṣṇīṣa, Tejorāśi, and Unnatoṣṇīṣa. {.
“These eight uṣṇīṣa king
should be painted to the left of the pratyeka­buddhas
At the gate should be two bodhisattvas
to the right of the entrance, one called Lokātikrānta­gāmin, and to the left, the great bodhisattva called Ajitañjaya
The first should be depicted as having a peaceful form, wearing a diadem on his topknotted hair, holding a rosary in his right hand and a water jar in his left, facing the gate, and with a slight frown on his face
The other has a peaceful form, wears a diadem on his topknotted hair and carries a staff and a water jar in his left hand, and in his right hand, which displays a boon-granting gesture, he carries a rosary. He should be painted facing the gate, with a slight frown on his face. {.
“Below the lion throne should be painted a Dharma wheel surrounded by a halo of blazing light
Below that should be painted a jeweled palace within which is Lord Mañjuśrī, the divine youth, the great bodhisattva, with a youthful body of pale saffron color. He has a peaceful form of beautiful appearance and a gentle smile on his face
In his left hand he holds a blue lotus; with his right he displays a boon-granting gesture and holds a wood-apple fruit. {.
“He is adorned with all the ornaments of youth and is decorated with five locks of hair. He wears a string of pearls, a sacred cord, a silken bodice, and garments of silk. Shining in all directions, he is surrounded by a halo of blazing light. He sits on a lotus seat facing the entrance gate of the maṇḍala and looks toward Yamāntaka, Lord of Wrath . He should be painted as being beautiful to behold in every respect. {.
“On his right side, below the lotus, should be painted Yamāntaka, Lord of Wrath 
in his ugly misshapen form, completely surrounded by blazing light. Awaiting a command, he looks at the great bodhisattva Mañjuśrī. He should be painted complete in every detail. On the left side of Mañjuśrī, below the lotus, should be painted five bodhisattvas in the form of gods of the realm of the Pure Abode
These five are Sunirmala , Sudānta, Suśuddha, Tamodghātana, and Samantāvaloka
All of them should be depicted as residing in the realm of the Pure Abode, their beautiful forms covered with flowers and bright all around with multicolored light like multifaceted gemstones. {.
“The inner maṇḍala has an outer perimeter in the shape of a square
It has four archways and shines in the four cardinal directions with a vivid light of five colors. It should be demarcated with nicely colored cord stretched in straight lines
In the eastern quarter, above Lord Śākyamuni, is Saṃkusumita Rājendra. He should be drawn in the center within the cord-lined area, sitting on a lotus, with the body of a tathāgata but small in size
and surrounded by a halo of blazing light. His right hand displays the boon-granting gesture, and he sits in the cross-legged posture. {.
“To the right and left of Saṃkusumita Rājendra should be drawn, respectively, the mudrās of the uṣṇīṣa [kings] Cakravartin and Tejorāśi
The mudrā of Prajñāpāramitā should be drawn above Tathāgata­locanā 
Above the noble Avalokiteśvara and to the right of the mudrā of Prajñāpāramitā should be drawn Lord Amitābha with the body of a tathāgata
With his right hand Amitābha displays the boon-granting gesture; he sits on a lotus seat and is surrounded by a halo of blazing light. {.
“To Amitābha’s right the mudrās of the alms bowl and the monk’s robe should be drawn
Following the sequence, the lotus mudrā should be drawn at the entrance
To the left of Lord Saṃkusumita Rājendra, the mudrā of the uṣṇīṣa king Tejorāśi should be drawn surrounded by a halo of blazing light
To his left the thus-gone Ratnaketu should be drawn sitting upon a jewel mountain and expounding the Dharma
He should be depicted as surrounded by light emanating all around from a multicolored blaze of sapphires, beryls, emeralds, and rubies. {.
“To the left of Ratnaketu should be painted the mudrā of Jayoṣṇīṣa, surrounded by a halo of blazing light
To its left is the mudrā of the Dharma wheel, with light blazing all around it
To its left are the mudrās of a mendicant’s staff, water jar, rosary, and the auspicious throne
Next in sequence, at the gate of the maṇḍala, should be painted an earth vajra with three prongs at either end, radiating blazing light
The great five-crested mudrā and the utpala mudrā, both radiating blazing light and connected to one another, should be painted below Lord Mañjuśrī. {.
“Then the surrounding maṇḍala should be drawn
It should be made so that one enters it via the western gate, and it should be facing to the east
This outer maṇḍala should be painted in all its aspects the same as the inner one—it radiates five-colored light, is beautiful to behold in its vividness, and it has four gateways in the four cardinal directions. It should extend two cubits beyond the inner maṇḍala. {.} “In the eastern quarter should be painted the Great Brahmā with four faces, wearing white apparel including a white shirt and a white sacred thread
He is of golden color, wears a diadem on his topknotted hair, and carries a water jar and a walking stick in his left hand
To his right there is a god from the Ābhāsvara realm—golden in color, distinguished in appearance due to his meditation, wearing silken garments and a silken shirt, and with a serene expression on his face
He wears a diadem on his topknotted hair and a white sacred thread. He sits in the cross-legged posture with his right hand displaying the boon-granting gesture. {.
“To his right should be painted a god from the Akaniṣṭha realm
adorned with all types of jewelry. With his mind steeped in meditation, he is of peaceful appearance
He is wearing silk garments and a silk shirt, sits in the cross-legged posture, and displays with his right hand the boon-granting gesture
He is invested with a white sacred thread
The gods from the Tuṣita, Sunirmita, and Paranirmita realms should be painted following the same sequence
and they are headed by Suyāma and Śakra, each at his assigned location, and following the right order
Below Śakra should be painted gods from the realm of the four great kings, as well as the sadāmatta s, mālādhārins, karoṭapāṇis, and vīṇādvītiyakas. The gods of the earth should likewise be painted sequentially arranged, with all their respective attributes. {.
“Similarly, in the southern quarter, the gods starting with those from the Avṛha, Atapas, Sudṛśa, Sudarśana, Parīttābha , and Puṇyaprasava realms should be drawn, all in their respective places and wearing their individual ornaments
The same should be done for the western and northern quarters
More are drawn below the ones just mentioned, arranged in two rows. {.
“Outside of the second circle there is the third circle in which the four great kings are drawn sequentially in the four quarters
To the right of the entrance gate in the northern direction should be painted Dhanada in the form of a yakṣa standing next to a treasure trove. He is adorned with all types of jewelry and wears a slightly curved diadem
To his right are the two yakṣa generals, Maṇibhadra and Pūrṇabhadra. {.
“Following next, in the west, should be drawn Varuṇa with a noose in his hand, followed by the two nāga s Nanda and Upananda and the eight great nāga kings, starting with Takṣaka and Vāsuki. {.
“In this way should be painted two sequentially arrayed rows of yakṣa s, rākṣasas, gandharvas, kinnaras, mahoragas, ṛṣis, siddha s, pretas, piśācas, garuḍas, and other human and nonhuman beings, as well as medicinal herbs, gems and jewels in all their variety, mountains, rivers, and islands—with the chief and most important among them at the head. {.
“In the southern quarter should be painted Yama along with his retinue, which includes the seven mothers
In the southeastern quarter is Agni, depicted as surrounded by a halo of flames
holding a staff, a water jar, and a rosary in his hands; wearing a diadem atop his matted hair; and dressed in white garments including a shirt of fine silk
He is of golden color, wearing a white sacred thread, and has a triple line drawn with ash on his forehead
They are all painted arranged in two rows, with their various respective adornments, weapons, attire, body postures, and colors. {.
“All around the area outside this triple maṇḍala are distributed the following deities: Umā’s husband, riding a bull, with a trident in his hand; the goddess Umā herself, of golden color, adorned with all kinds of jewelry
and Kārttikeya , in his form of a divine youth with six faces and a red body, sitting on a peacock, raising a javelin in his hand, wearing yellow garments and a yellow shirt, and holding in his left hand a bell and a red banner
Next in sequence are Bhṛṅgiriṭi, extremely emaciated, Mahāgaṇapati, Nandikeśvara, Mahākāla, and the seven mothers. They should be painted with their respective adornments, weapons, attire, and body postures. {.
“Next to be painted are the eight vasus and seven ṛṣis. Viṣṇu should be painted with four arms, holding a discus, a mace, a conch, and a sword
He rides a garuḍa and is adorned with all types of jewelry
Next are the eight grahas, the twenty-seven constellations, and the eight upagraha deities who roam the expanse of the earth
Following next are the personifications of the fifteen lunar days of the bright fortnight and the fifteen of the dark fortnight, the twelve signs of the zodiac, the six seasons, the twelve months, and of the year
Next are the four sisters, riding in boats, and the five brothers who live in water
For conciseness these deities can be represented by their respective mudrās and arranged sequentially in two rows. {.
“In short, as regards the three maṇḍalas, one should draw them also as the three dwelling places ( āśraya ), each with the four corners, with the distribution [of the deities] as follows: {.
“In short, Lord Buddha must be painted at the head of all beings
Representing the Lotus family , Noble Avalokiteśvara must be painted to Śākyamuni’s right
Representing the Vajra family , Noble Vajrapāṇi must be painted to Śākyamuni’s left
Samantabhadra must be painted at the head of all bodhisattvas
and likewise the divine youth, Mañjuśrī, should also be included
The remaining ones should each be represented by his or her mudrā in their respective places
This is how the inner maṇḍala should be painted. {.
“In the middle maṇḍala, Brahmā Sahāmpati must be painted in the eastern quarter
Similarly, in the southern quarter are the Ābhāsvara and Akaniṣṭha gods, the form gods, and the gods from the realm of neither consciousness nor unconsciousness who do not appear in the maṇḍala in any particular form
In the northern quarter are the king of gods Śakra and the gods starting with those from the realms of Suyāma, Tuṣita, Sunirmita, Paranirmita, and Parīttābha . Each king of the gods’ realms must be painted individually
The rest should be represented by their respective mudrās. {.
“Similarly, in the third maṇḍala, Īśāna the Lord of Beings must be painted in the northern quarter together with Umā
Kārttikeya -Mañjuśrī should be painted near the second gate, riding on a peacock and holding a javelin in his hand
His body is of red color and he is dressed in a yellow upper shirt and other garments. In his right hand he holds a bell and a red banner
He possesses the beauty of a youth and looks upon the maṇḍala
Vainateya, who has the form of a bird, should always be painted in the eastern quarter, along with the sage Mārkaṇḍa
The rest should be represented by their respective mudrās. {.
“In the southeastern division should be the four girls of royal bearing together with their brothers, the divine youths. They are aboard boats, traveling around the great ocean
Also Agni, the lord of gods, should always be painted in the same area of the maṇḍala
Also in the southern quarter should be painted Vibhīṣaṇa, the king of rākṣasas, in the country of Laṅkā. Also located there, dwelling in a neem tree, is the bodhisattva named Jambhala, the Lord of Waters, who has the form of a yakṣa
Painted next in the same sequence should be the king Yama, a preta of great power
So too the king of piśācas named Vikarāla
The remaining ones should be represented by their respective mudrās. {.
“Similary, the two chief nāga s, Nanda and Upananda, and als
Āditya, the chief among celestial bodies, must be painted in the southwestern division
The best of ṛṣis, the sage named Kapila, should be in the western quarter. The preeminent one among non-Buddhists, he should have the form of a naked mendicant
The remaining ones should be represented by their respective mudrās, arranged in a proper order. {.
“In the northwestern division should be the king of yakṣa s Dhanada, the king of gandharvas Pañcaśikha, and the king of kinnaras Druma
The remaining ones should be represented by their respective mudrās and arranged in sequence according to their respective places. {.
“Outside the third maṇḍala there should be a fourth, comprised of five concentric zones and adorned with rows of mudrās
It has four sides, each including a gateway graced with [one of] the four great kings
The emblems are arranged in the following order: {.} “At the entrance gate in the east should be painted a blue lotus
From right to left, there should be a lotus, vajra, axe, sword, trident, mace, discus, swastika, water jar, fish, conch, earring, banner, flag, noose, bell, dagger, bow, arrow, and hammer
All four of the maṇḍala’s sides should be filled with rows of symbols ( mudrā ) [representing] these various weapons and implements
Outside all of this, in the four directions, should be placed the four great oceans. {.
“In the northern direction should be drawn a small four-sided maṇḍala, within which is placed a three-pronged double vajra that radiates blazing light
In the eastern direction should be drawn a small triangular maṇḍala, within which is placed a lotus that radiates blazing light
In the southern direction should be drawn a small bow-shaped maṇḍala, within which is placed a bowl that radiates blazing light
In the western direction should be drawn a small maṇḍala entirely made of light, within which is placed a blue lotus complete with a stalk and leaves and radiating blazing light. {.
“In the four intermediate directions should be the following four mudrās, each of them blazing with light all around: A noose should be placed in the northwestern direction, within a round maṇḍala
A staff should be placed in the southwestern direction, within an elongated maṇḍala
An axe should be placed in the southeastern direction, within a triangular maṇḍala
A sword should be placed in the northeastern direction. {.
“When all this has been drawn, three mudrās should be traced with colored powders outside the gate of the main maṇḍala: one above, one below, and one at the same level
The three mudrās to be painted are clothes, a fly-whisk, and a pair of shoes, each surrounded by blazing light.” {.
This maṇḍala procedure Has been taught here in brief By the wise Mañjughoṣa, Out of his desire to benefit beings. {.
“Then, the maṇḍala master should first of all select the right disciples
They should have unimpaired faculties and bodies beautiful in every limb; should belong to the brahmin, kṣatriya, vaiśya, or śūdra castes; should have developed bodhicitta; should be followers of the Great Vehicle; should possess discipline that is not related to other vehicles; should be great beings (bodhisattvas); should have faith and follow the auspicious Dharma; should wish for the great kingship; should shun trivial enjoyments but delight in the great ones; should be gracious, well mannered, and disciplined; should be monks or nuns, or male or female lay practitioners; should observe their particular rules, fasts, and ritual observances; should abide by their vows of conduct; should not harbor hatred for great bodhisattvas; should belong to a spiritual family of many adherents; and should have a natural inclination to practice Dharma. {.} “They will have fasted for one day and one night, put on clean clothes, nicely scented their hair, bathed three times, and observed silence. On the day of the empowerment, they should perfume their mouths with the fragrances of camphor, saffron, and cloves, and, after the regular performance of ritual besprinkling, they should sit on bundles of kuśa grass and have the protection ceremony performed for them. Celibate and committed to truth, they should be placed outside the maṇḍala Victorious over the Divisions of Time, not too far from it and not too near to it
Clean and ritually purified, they should number no more than between one and eight and be close associates of one another
They will include kṣatriyas who are closely associated with one another and great kings who have had their heads anointed, as well as their offspring—the princes and princesses who have not yet experienced sex
This is because Lord Mañjuśrī, the great bodhisattva in a youthful form, loves to engage in youthful play, awakening foolish people to realization. {.
“Consequently, it is the princely youths who should be ushered in first
This will elevate their regal status and promote long life, health, power, and the ability to savor sensual enjoyments
In particular, this will stabilize the accomplishment of mantra for them, the inexperienced. {.
“Once they are positioned in front, assigned an assistant, and attentive, the maṇḍala master should exit backward while burning incense of camphor
After exiting, he should bathe and besprinkle himself, as convenient for the season, with water that has been incanted one hundred and eight times with the root mantra and sealed with the great mudrā called five-crested 
Dressed in clean white clothes, he should then approach the sacrificial fire pit, and, {.
“Seated on the bundles of kuśa grass and facing northeast, He should offer into the fire One thousand and eight oblations consisting of Camphor, saffron, and sandalwood mixed together. {.
“Having summoned and then dismissed the deities according to the previously described procedure, he should again enter the maṇḍala
After entering he should prepare eight full vases draped in clean cloth, adorned with mango blossoms, and containing gold, silver, gems, grain, and rice. He should allocate the first to Lord Śākyamuni
the second to all the buddhas
the third to all the pratyeka­buddhas and the noble congregation of the śrāvakas
the fourth to all the great bodhisattvas
the fifth to the great bodhisattva Mañjuśrī
and the sixth to all the gods
The seventh and the eighth should be placed in the niches by the gate of the second maṇḍala. They should be draped in clean white cloth
One of them should be assigned to all the spirits
and the second should be dedicated to all beings equally. {.
“Then, following the previously described procedure
“Similarly, he should offer, in a ritual as previously described, flowers, incense, fragrances, light, and foodstuffs
he should offer all this to all the recipients, thoroughly and in the right order
For the offering of light, he should offer butter lamps
When offering food to all the noble recipients and others, he should offer rice pudding with curds. {.} “To all the tathāgatas he should offer cakes rich particularly in honey and milk and fried in butter, as well as pastry-rolls ( vartī ), candies ( khaṇḍa ), and other delicacies
To all the pratyeka­buddhas, noble śrāvakas, great bodhisattvas, and the noble deities he should offer dishes prepared with honey and cooked in milk, rich in butter, and flavored with chir pine resin
Similarly, to all the gods and hosts of spirits, and all beings in general, he should offer cake products, particularly sweetmeats, incanted with the mantra according to procedure. {.
“Similarly, to all the buddhas, pratyeka­buddhas, noble śrāvakas, and great bodhisattvas as well as all noble and ordinary beings he should offer fragrant flowers as described before, starting with royal jasmine, crepe jasmine, champak, and the blossom of the pannay tree
Royal jasmine flowers are particularly suitable for the Tathāgata family , lotuses for the Lotus family , and water lilies for the family of Vajrapāṇi
For other mantra deities other flowers may be suitable. {.
“Camphor incense is suitable for the Tathāgata family 
sandalwood for the Lotus family
and bdellium for the family of Vajrapāṇi, the lord of guhyakas
For all other mantra deities the master should offer a different incense
Butter lamps should be offered to all the noble ones
and scented oil lamps to all the ordinary mantra deities. {.
“As for the successive procedure
That function as previously described
“Whatever has been taught by Avalokiteśvara Or taught by Vajrapāṇi, In their respective tantras, On accomplishing the aims of mantra practice
That also can be learned from this manual And applied in every respect. {.
“The maṇḍala master then, following the previously described procedure, should perform the ritual acts of summoning, making offerings, burning incense, and the rest, and he should offer food and service as well
Having done this, he should have his skillful assistants promptly prepare the meatless bali for all the spirits
He should have them beat the kettledrums, blow the conchs, and utter cries of joy in every direction. The bali should include incense, flowers, lamps, and garlands. {.} “Circling then the maṇḍala to the right, the master should scatter the extensive bali that satisfies all spirits, upward, downward, and horizontally, into each of the four cardinal and four intermediate directions and everywhere outside the maṇḍala
After bathing, he should offer into the fire one thousand and eight oblations consisting of rice grains smeared with curds, honey, and ghee. As the master offers the oblations while reciting the heart mantra and the six-syllable root mantra
the great beings who have entered the maṇḍala and now stand before him; who have had the protection rite performed for them and have been accepted as disciples by the maṇḍala master
who have developed bodhicitta, observed the ritual fast, and offered their own bodies to all the buddhas and bodhisattvas
who for the sake of spiritual accomplishments share in the experiences of ordinary beings
who are fit to ascend to the seat of unsurpassable awakening; and who desire omniscient awakening will become liberated from all their vices through merely beholding the maṇḍala
Even those people who have committed the five deeds of immediate retribution are immediately liberated. {.
“The maṇḍala master then should cover the faces of the initiands who wish to enter the maṇḍala with a veil fashioned from a newly made, unbleached cloth from which the loose threads have been pulled out and hairs removed, that has been incanted with the root mantra seven times, and that has been anointed with fragrant ointments, sandalwood, and saffron
First, boys should be brought into the maṇḍala starting from the sixteen- and finishing with the three-year-olds
They may be embellished with either five decorative locks of hair or just one, and they may wear a topknot of hair or not
They should be princes whose crowns have been anointed, sons of kṣatriyas, or others of great endeavor who desire sovereignty. {.
“When the initiand stands in the second maṇḍala with a veiled face
the master should form the utpala mudrā and have him recite the root mantra of Mañjuśrī, the divine youth, once
Guiding his actions, he should give him a flower of nice fragrance and have him throw it onto the maṇḍala with both hands that have been purified with the mixture of sandalwood and saffron
The master should give him the mantra corresponding to the spot where the flower falls. {.
“That is said to be his personal mantra and will stay with him through the succession of his future births
This mantra is like his spiritual guide; it will bring about his ascension to the seat of awakening and the complete unfolding of the omniscient knowledge of great bodhisattvas. He should master this mantra, which will bring great enjoyments, the status of a king, and the company of eminent people
That which is to be accomplished will be accomplished in this very life without doubt, including all the activities. {.
“Thus, in due course, those who desire magical accomplishments will obtain each one of them until all eight are obtained, but no other accomplishments
If one desires other accomplishments, such as the removal of sins, only the samaya may be given
For this purpose, the maṇḍala master who bestows the empowerment should first consecrate an area outside the maṇḍala toward the northeast, neither too far nor too near, by purifying it with the root mantra
Just as in the case of the royal empowerment, he should admit disciples whom he regards as single-mindedly devoted to the Buddha, the Dharma, and the Saṅgha; who have faith and great energy; who are never separated from bodhicitta and follow the Great Vehicle; and who serve the Three Jewels
They should have unimpaired faculties, be irreproachable, and wish to accomplish the mantras in this very life. Their hearts may be kind and their minds resolved upon mantra practice, or they may be merely interested in the nonconceptual meaning of the mantra out of curiosity and a desire to know. They should be granted the first through the fifth empowerments
the remaining ones should be omitted
Only those with the special qualities of insight and full understanding of the conduct should be initiated; others should not be. {.
“The master should then collect the requisites as in every royal empowerment, or any that he finds pleasing
A canopy should be spread above him, banners and flags raised, and a white parasol should be held above his head. He should be fanned with a white yak-tail whisk with great care, and praised with well-wishing, auspicious, and excellent verses as spoken by the buddhas themselves, accompanied by cries of joy, the sounds of conchs, kettledrums and tambourines, and cries of victory
After circumambulating the maṇḍala clockwise, the disciples should bow to all the buddhas and bodhisattvas, bow their heads to the master, and say the following: {.
“ ‘O master! I will exert myself in order to engage in carrying out the mantra activities of all the buddhas and bodhisattvas, in order to enter the secret maṇḍala of liberation that surpasses all that is mundane, and to realize the state of buddhahood that affords sovereignty over all phenomena
In short, I will become a buddha.’ {.
“Then, the initiand should sit on a bundle of kuśa grass, facing east and looking at the maṇḍala
He will first be given the knowledge ( vidyā ) empowerment and then made to form the mudrā called five-crested 
Then, whatever mantra he desires should be written on a leaf of birchbark with bovine bezoar
Having written it, he should smear both his hands and the interior of an earthenware vessel with sandalwood and saffron and place the birchbark leaf between two earthenware bowls. He should then place the leaf, enclosed between the two bowls, inside the maṇḍala at the soles of the bodhisattva Mañjuśrī’s feet. {.
“Next, the disciple sitting there should first be made to recite the root vidyā mantra one hundred and eight time
and then should be consecrated while still sitting on the bundle of kuśa grass
The master should take the full vase that had been allocated to all beings in common from outside the inner maṇḍala where it was earlier placed near the gate and, while reciting the root mantra, anoint the disciple’s head
For the remaining empowerments, he should use whatever water is appropriate. {.
“The earthenware container should then be handed to him, and, while a butter lamp is burning, he should be made to recite the mantra
If it is the same mantra, the disciple will succeed through merely reciting it
If it is a different one, he will succeed gradually, after applying effort
It is said that even if the mantra given to him lacks or has extra syllables, he can still succeed, without a doubt, at the first sādhana session
for this mantra was written earlier by the master himself. If he keeps practicing, he will arrive, within three sādhana sessions, at the stage where success comes without effort
In this way, the master should first give the knowledge empowerment. {.
“As for the empowerment in the second maṇḍala, he should take the full vase that had been allocated to all the gods in this maṇḍala and anoint the disciple’s head with it
As before, this procedure will free him from all his vices
He is then authorized by all the buddhas to enter samayas for any worldly or transcendent maṇḍala, as well as the practice of any mantra or mudrā. He will be blessed by all the bodhisattvas. Consequently, the master may now give him the ācārya empowerment. {.
“The ācārya empowerment is given in the third maṇḍala. The master should take the full vase that had been allocated to all the śrāvakas and pratyeka­buddhas and, following the same procedure, anoint the disciple’s head with it
The master should say, ‘All the buddhas and bodhisattvas of great power have authorized you to write and recite all worldly and transcendent mantras, to use the instructions on the maṇḍala, and to give to others, as well as apply yourself, the instructions on the practice of the mantra methods, including the mudrās
In this very life, and in the lives to come until the final one, you will definitely obtain the state of awakening.’ {.
“Similarly, in the empowerment of victory and the empowerment of conquest, the master should perform the sprinkling following the previously described procedure, using, respectively, the full vase that had been allocated to the blessed buddhas and the one allocated to the bodhisattvas
He should say, ‘You are authorized by all the blessed buddhas, the great bodhisattvas, and the śrāvakas, {.
“ ‘Unassailable by any spirits, And unconquerable by any embodied beings; May you find victory through all the mantras And accomplish whatever you desire.’ {.
“The maṇḍala master should, According to each of their wishes, Grant to all the disciples The five empowerments
but only the five. {.
“The master should then usher them, one by one, into the maṇḍala, present them to all the buddhas and bodhisattvas, have them circumambulate the maṇḍala clockwise three times, and dismiss them
At a later time they should be gradually instructed in and enjoined to practice the mantra
On the present occasion, however, the master should take the full vase that had earlier been allocated to the great bodhisattva Mañjuśrī and make those disciples who have entered the maṇḍala drink three handfuls of water while facing east
He should say to them: {.
“ ‘Do not generate a great amount of nonvirtue by transgressing the secret samaya of the divine youth, the bodhisattva Mañjuśrī
You must not discard any of the mantras
You must be loyal to all the buddhas or bodhisattva
and must please the master
Otherwise you will break your samaya, your mantras will not be successful, and there will be much nonvirtue.
Having said this, he should dismiss them. {.
“The maṇḍala master should, in addition, offer oblations of rice grains smeared with curds, honey, and ghee, while reciting the eight-syllable heart mantra
Getting up, he should then enter into the middle of the maṇḍala and make a welcome offering to all the visualized recipients using the previously mentioned flowers and following the procedure as previously described
Using the previously specified incense, he should make an incense offering to all the buddhas and bodhisattvas, pratyeka­buddhas and noble śrāvakas, and all the gods, nāga s, yakṣa s, garuḍas, gandharvas, kinnaras, mahoragas, rākṣasas, piśācas, and bhūtas, as well as the divine yogins, siddha s, and ṛṣis and all beings. He should strew flowers over them
sprinkle them with water scented with sandalwood and saffron, and then dismiss them following the previously described procedure
He should imagine that all of them become liberated. {.
“The maṇḍala master should then take the food, bali, and aromatic powder and let all these articles float upon a river
Alternatively, he should give them to suffering beings
He should select an area on the ground, sweep and clean it well, adorn it, and smear it with cow dung. Optionally
he may wash it with water, smear it with well-purified clay, or cover it with sand
He should do this himself and may proceed as he desires
Those who have entered the maṇḍala should themselves partake of the milk porridge or sacrificial food.” {.
This concludes the second chapter, that of the instructions on the maṇḍala procedure, from this great king of manuals that forms a garland-like basket of bodhisattva teachings, an extensive bodhisattva textbook that is a miraculous display of Mañjuśrī, the divine youth
Mañjuśrī, the divine youth, again looked at the realm of the Pure Abode and, bowing to all the buddhas and bodhisattvas gathered together in that great assembly, pronounced the most secret single-syllable mantra, which removes all poison
and can be employed in all rites the mantra that is effective in the practices of his maṇḍala and which can also be used in all minor ritual activities
What is that mantra? {.
“Homage to all the buddhas
“jaḥ
“This very mantra, friends and all hosts of spirits, the one syllable, is to be used, in short, in the second maṇḍala procedure. {.
“After cleaning an area on the ground either eight or four cubits in size, it should be delimited using five-colored powder by oneself, not by anyone else
No matter where this is done, there is no fault
The area should be four sided, with sides of equal length, and should include the triple maṇḍala
First one should draw the great five-crested mudrā, the utpala mudrā of Lord Mañjuśrī, and the mudrās the fangs , the mouth , and the stick 
These mudrās should be drawn in the eastern quarter of the inner maṇḍala. {.
“Next, outside the door base should be drawn a red lotus, a vajra, a blue lotus, a banner, a flag, a parasol, a doorway, a chariot, an elephant, a horse, a bull, a buffalo, a swastika, a peacock, a goat, a ram, and a man of youthful appearance
They should be arranged in successive rows fitting in with the threefold maṇḍala. {.
“Then, in the southeastern direction, one should perform the fire kindling ritual using the one-syllable mantr
and offer one hundred and eight oblations with sticks of the devil’s horsewhip plant smeared with curds, honey, and ghee
Then a welcome offering of flowers should be presented
Using the one-syllable mantra, one may also offer, whenever desired, a bali, sacrificial food, lamps, or incense or perform the summoning and the dismissing. {.} “One should usher the supplicant into the maṇḍala
If he wants royal power, the maṇḍala should be drawn in the middle of a city
if he wishes for enjoyments, then near a banyan tree
if he wants a son, then near a lucky bean tree
If he desires a wife, horses, or elephants, then inside an elephant stable or a horse stable
if he has been bitten [by a snake], then at a pond or a place where nāga s live
if he is afflicted with a quartan, chronic, or any other fever, then near a solitary liṅga or to the south of a village
if he is possessed by rākṣasas, then in a cemetery or in an empty house
if he is possessed by piśācas, then near a beleric myrobalan tree or a castor oil plant
if he is possessed by any of the mātṛs, then at a crossroad or near a house where a male offspring has died
if he is possessed by brahmarākṣasas, then under a palm tree or a large sebesten tree
If he was fed poison, he should be given water incanted seven times with the one-syllable mantra and made to lie down in the middle of the maṇḍala—he will be released from the effects of the poison. {.
“Similarly, in the case of a woman or a man who seeks fame, one should draw the maṇḍala at a crossroad or on brahmins’ land
If it is a woman whose child has died, then it should be drawn near a fruit-bearing tree or a sap-filled tree
In the case of a childless woman, it should be drawn in the middle of a field of rice ready to harvest
For those who have contracted the three diseases or have been afflicted by others, it should be drawn at a crossing point or a similar place
In the case of severe illness, a maṇḍala that destroys rākṣasas should be drawn on a river island or a riverbank
Drawn on a mountaintop, the maṇḍala counters all diseases, in whatever form they may be
For the diseases caused by ḍākinīs, it should be drawn in a brahmin’s garden, an empty house, a lonely spot, or a depression in the terrain. {.
“In all rituals such as these, the maṇḍala should be drawn at midnight, or midday, or otherwise at any time
Employing this very one-syllable mantra, one should present a welcome offering of flowers to the deity and then dismiss him
Having done so, one should inundate the maṇḍala with water. This will provide strong protection to all those who are weary. {.
“They will be freed from all illnesses And will attain their desired goals. One without a son will obtain a son, And the unfortunate will meet with good fortune. {.
“The destitute will obtain wealth Through merely seeing the maṇḍala. Anyone with faith in the ritual, Whether it is a woman or a man, Will meet, every time, With whatever kind of good fortune they wish for.” {.
This concludes the chapter on the maṇḍala procedure, the third in “The Root Manual of the Divine Youth Mañjuśrī,” an extensive bodhisattva textbook
Mañjuśrī then looked at the entire realm of the Pure Abode and again directed his gaze at the great assembly gathered there
Prostrating at the feet of Śākyamuni, he smiled and said this to the Blessed One: {.
“It is good fortune, O Blessed One, that there is a painting procedure, intended for the benefit of all beings, from the extensive chapters that produce a rain of desired results falling down from the Cloud of Dharma that arises from the accomplishment of sādhana methods of mantra practice. This procedure generates a vast amount of merit and creates the seed of perfect awakening; it also brings complete omniscience. {.
“In short, it completely fulfills all wishes; it grants the complete acquisition of the fruits of all mantras
it brings about accomplishments that are fruitful and effective, as well as the complete fulfillment of bodhisattva conduct
it equips one with the armor of a great bodhisattva
and it overpowers and puts to flight the entire army of Māra. Please take pity on us, O Blessed One, and on all beings, and teach us this procedure.” {.
Being thus addressed by the divine youth Mañjuśrī, Lord Śākyamuni said this to Mañjuśrī, the divine youth
“Good, Mañjuśrī! It is good that you, acting for the benefit of many people, with compassion for the world, deem this topic to be worthy of asking the Tathāgata
Listen well and reflect upon it thoroughly
I will teach your painting procedure to you in full—the procedure that is the means for all sentient beings to accomplish their practice
I will teach it just as it was previously taught by all the tathāgatas, introducing and expounding it in the right order. I will teach it now. {.
“To start, the maṇḍala master should bring cotton to a patch of ground free of impurities and have it cleaned by people who have taken up the samaya vows
When it has been cleaned, the maṇḍala master should incant it with the mantra, as given next, one hundred and eight times. {.
“Homage to all the buddhas and bodhisattvas whose intentions are impeccable and who practice impeccable conduct. Homage to the sovereign king of kings who purifies and pacifies suffering, the tathāgata, the worthy one, the perfectly awakened one. The mantra is as follows: “ Oṁ , purify purify! You are the destroyer of all obstacle makers, one of great compassion, possessed of the form of divine youth! Transform, transform! Remember your samaya! Remain, remain! Huṁ huṁ, phaṭ phaṭ, svāhā! {.
“Then the maṇḍala master should procure a young girl, who has not yet had a sexual experience
born into a brahmin, kṣatriya, or vaiśya family
Those of a low-caste origin should be avoided. She should be physically unimpaired and beautiful in every limb. She should have obtained permission to take part in the ritual from her mother and father and should be observing the ritual fast
She should have developed bodhicitta and be compassionate
She should have a clear, light complexion without any discoloration
In short, she must have all the auspicious marks of a woman
On an auspicious day of the bright fortnight, having ascertained that the planets are astrologically auspicious and bright, in a clean, windless place that is free from smoke, fog, and clouds, having bathed the previously described girl, the maṇḍala master should dress her nicely in clean clothes and perform the protection ritual employing the mantra as given next along with the great mudrā
He should mix some white sandalwood and saffron with water that is free of living organisms and, while the girl is drinking it, he should sprinkle her with this water, purified with the same mantra. {.
“He should throw white sandalwood and saffron-scented water in the four cardinal directions, upward, downward, and in the four intermediate directions
Having blended white sandalwood, saffron, and camphor together, the master should offer it himself or have the practitioner do this
The following should be spoken three times: {.} “ ‘May the blessed buddhas and the great bodhisattvas established on the tenth bodhisattva level bless the thread for making this cloth.’ ” {.
“The blessed buddhas and the great bodhisattvas will subsequently give their attention to the ritual
While the master burns incense, at that time peacocks, curlews, wild geese, cranes, and ruddy geese—many beautiful birds who live on water or on land—will fly up into the air and utter their auspicious cries
The practitioner should then know, ‘My rite will bear fruit
The holy buddhas and the great bodhisattvas have blessed my canvas thread for me
My present life will be a happy one, and my mantra accomplishment will not be in vain.’ {.
“The sounds of drums—big, medium, and small—conchs, lutes, flutes, cymbals, and tambourines will be heard
Women, boys, girls, and men—both real and imagined —will at that time spontaneously say the following
“ ‘Victory is accomplished! Take the offering that has been offered
This is glorious and fruitful, with an opulence matching that of Śakra!’ {.
“They, and others too, will say similar words. Sounds of a bell or sounds of rejoicing may also be heard
Only then will the knowledge holder know that the thread has been blessed by the holy buddhas and the great bodhisattvas, not in any other way
The accomplishment will not be futile. {.
“But, on that occasion, they may also say harsh words, such as: “ ‘Seize, devour, and cause others to devour! It is lost, lost completely. Alas! It is far, very far! It is gone!’ {.} “They could say words such as these
Also, the monkeys, buffaloes, jackals, donkeys, cats, and other detestable humans and animals might utter their cries
The practitioner will then realize that he has not succeeded, and that his present life will be short. As an option, he can do the preliminary practic
and repeat the procedure from the beginning up to seven times
After the seven performances of the ritual, even someone who has committed the five acts of immediate retribution will succeed. {.
“The practitioner should then perform the protection ritual for the previously selected girl and have her sit on a bundle of kuśa grass
He should place her facing the east or north, get his sacrificial food, and feed it to her
Following this procedure, he should have her spin the cotton upon the bundle of kuśa grass that was prepared beforehand. {.
“The thread, well spun and white, should be twisted together by a girl who has previously been trained
It should be well measured into units of one, three, five, eight, or up to sixteen palas or karṣas
The best would be of sixteen units
The middling would be of eight units
The next in rank would be of five units. In rites where the target is of minor significance, the thread should be of one unit
A mantra adept should use this scheme in all rites according to his ability. {.
“From then onward, Whatever bad karma one has previously committed Will be destroyed in an instant
As his mind focuses on the thread. {.
“He should take this thread And place it in a clean container
Having placed it there, He should cense it with an incense of camphor {.
“Or other substances not derived from the bodies of living beings, Such as saffron, sandalwood, and so forth. He should worship it with fragrant flowers Such as jasmine, champak, and others. {.
“The mantra adept, familiar with all the rites, Having recited the mantra as required, well focused, Should place the thread in a clean place For which the protection rite has been performed. {.
“He should then go to a weaver And pay him a fee of his choice
The weaver should not be lacking any limbs, Not be emaciated, and always delight in the pure Dharma. {.
“He should not be afflicted with illnesses, not be too old, And be free from coughing and asthma
He should not be impotent, And should be of a blameless origin. {.
“He should be faultless, Have no hump, and not be lame. He must have all the auspicious marks And be praiseworthy and good looking. {.
“He should be pure in mind, virtuous in conduct, And depend for his livelihood on a profession approved by the world
The practitioner who seeks accomplishment in this ritual Should request him to weave the best of cloths. {.
“His assistants should be praiseworthy, of good caste, Intelligent, and well traine
In weaving the best cloth Of the highest quality. {.
“For the highest rite, the mantra adept should follow the highest routine
For the medium, he should follow the medium
He should follow other routines Whenever the deeds are low or insignificant, {.
“Paying whatever price The craftsman specifies
At the first utterance of the craftsman The mantra adept should {.
“Promptly make the payment— This is called the ‘heroes’ transaction,
Since the mantra reciter pays After a mere request, without bargaining. {.
“This supreme and best of cloths Swiftly produces accomplishment
Fulfills all rites, is venerable, And bestows divine and human happiness
The perfectly awakened buddhas taught That this was auspicious for all beings. {.
“Then the knowledge holder should prescribe to the weaver the observance of a fast and, during an auspicious lunar asterism, on a bright day during the ‘fortnight of miracles’ when the planets have been ascertained as auspicious
or during another bright fortnight, in the spring, that best of seasons when mango trees are garlanded with blossoms and the best of trees are fully in bloom
in the morning when the sun has risen, he should give sacrificial food to the weaver who fits the previously described characteristics
He should dress him in clean clothes, tie a turban on his head
bathe and anoint him well
and smear his body with white sandalwood and saffron or some other such fragrance. He should perfume the weaver’s mouth with camphor, cheer him up, and make sure that he is neither hungry nor thirsty
The knowledge holder should then thoroughly clean the weaving implements, the rope, and other tools, using clay and cow dung
Placing them in front, he should rinse them with the five products of a cow again and again. {.
“Then, having rinsed them with water free of living organisms
he should ritually besprinkle them with white sandalwood and saffron
Having chosen a clean spot on the ground in a place free from noise and people, the practitioner should sit on a seat that is secluded, peaceful, and adorned with flowers
He should then throw white mustard seeds incanted one hundred and eight times with the purification mantra in the four cardinal directions, upward, downward, and in the four intermediate directions
Then, having cast mustard seeds at the weaver, he should form the great five-crested mudr
and tie his hair into a topknot. This will afford powerful protection. {.
“If the cloth is going to be of the superior kind, it should be four cubits wide and eight cubits long
he should supply the weaver with enough material for these measurements
If the cloth is going to be of the medium kind, it should be two cubits wide and five cubits long
If it is to be of the smallest kind, it should have the width equal to the thumb-to-index-finger measurement of the Sugata, and the length of one cubit
Regarding these particular measurements, the thumb-to-index-finger measurement of Lord Buddha corresponds to the length of the forearm of a man from the central region 
this is what is known as the Buddha’s thumb-to-index-finger measurement as a unit of length
The cloth is said to be of the authentic size when these measurements are used. {.} “When the cloth is of the superior kind, The superior accomplishment will arise, as taught by the most eminent of men
The medium cloth is for those desiring royal status After the sage has disappeared. {.
“When the cloth is of the lowest quality, the accomplishment is said To belong to the seekers of great prosperity Who will attain the comforts of the three classes of gods and the asuras
When middling, the accomplishment will be middling. {.
“The cloth of the lowest quality should always be used To accomplish the least important activities
Any activity will be accomplished And all substances always obtained. {.
“What is taught in the cloth ritual will bring accomplishment For people seeking good fortune
Those who stray from the right procedure— Even Śakra, the husband of Śacī—will not succeed. {.
“Those, however, who follow the right procedure, Even those of lowly birth, Will swiftly succeed In all rituals without effort. {.
“This path has been taught By the victorious ones and their foremost son
To improve the lot of all beings Suffering from poverty and lacking a protector. {.
“The complete path to awakening Has been explained by those who know the truth
This path, the cause of awakening, Is presented by means of the Mantra Vehicle. {.
“Mantras will be accomplished without effort, As will all mundane maṇḍalas
The supramundane ones that have been taught Will also be accomplished. {.
“Those whose minds are set on awakening Will always gain accomplishment
As for those who are always hostile to the world, Their accomplishment will not be taught in this manual. {.
“The great being Mañjuśrī, the divine youth, Always taught this accomplishment In particular for those beings Who set out in pursuit of awakening. {.
“One can swiftly obtain this accomplishment in full For the sake of fulfilling that which needs to be done
The craftsman should therefore Weave the cloth diligently, step by step, {.
“Working in two sessions of four time units each day, It will take him five or eight days of sixteen time units
Working all day and all night, The weaving will be completed quickly. {.
“In the case of those who desire the accomplishment of the highest order The cloth should be completed within a single day and night
The craftsman should be continually supervised To check whether he observes his purification practices. {.
“He should walk away from his dwelling the required distance To evacuate his bowels and bladder
He should then bathe and wash his clothes, Changing into the new ones. {.
“Wearing white garments and a garland, He should rinse his mouth repeatedly
Anoint his body with white sandalwood, And wipe his hands clean. {.
“He should weave on with diligence, Making a fine and blemish-free cloth
Using the previously mentioned methods Or other methods as taught by the victorious ones, {.
“When the thoughtful and disciplined weaver Who weaves the entire cloth Creates it through the preceding rites And completes it as described, {.
“The practitioner should ensure, on an auspicious day, That it is not too small but of the right size and even
Then, during an auspicious bright fortnight, He should invest it with a mantra. {.
“Having spread out the cloth, Adorned with knotted tassels
He should fasten it onto bamboo sticks, Then take it and go. {.
“He should congratulate the craftsman at length, Rewarding him with a substantial honorarium
He should then go wherever he wishes, Sticking by his rules of conduct and ritual observances. {.
“He should worship the cloth with fragrant flowers Then place it in a clean plac
And perform the protection rite Using the mantra. {.
“To perform the protection rite He should use the same mantra With which he had earlier purified the cotton repeatedly
The protection should be both for himself and the cloth. {.
“Mañjuśrī, he of great valor, Has been expressed in the form of mantr
In the past by many mantras And by me as well again and again. {.
“He, the very nature of mantra, Pervades all mantras
With great valor and efficacy, He fulfills the aims of all mantras. {.
“He takes a great diversity of forms And serves as the cause for all manner of protection
Foolish are the minds and behavior Of beings living in Jambūdvīpa. {.
“They are devoid of faith and perverted
They follow mistaken conduct and are very greedy
They are unable to accomplish the mantras, Nor can they obtain any substances. {.
“And so they wander In the dark prison of saṃsāra
However, if one has a pure mind, Constant faith, and keen interest in the auspicious; {.
“If one is constantly eager To grasp and maintain all the mantras
And if such a great being desires accomplishment And has great perseverance and energy, {.
“The mantras taught by the victorious ones Will bring him results without effort
But among those without faith, The virtuous Dharma will not grow. {.
“It is like a seed sown in salty soil, Whose sprout will not bear fruit
Faith is always the root of Dharma, As has been taught by all those who show the true goal
The accomplishment of mantra, as has always been taught, Belongs to those disciplined for the sake of the Dharma. {.
“Therefore, only a well-trained painter skilled in sādhana, or oneself if able to, should do the painting using uncontaminated paints
The painter, having undergone the ritual procedure as previously described for preparing the weaver, and endowed with the auspicious marks and so forth should choose any bright paints of strong colors and execute the painting in detail
The painting may be commissioned or done by oneself adhering to the same procedure as before in the case of the weaver. {.
“One should infuse the paints with camphor, saffron, sandalwood, and so forth, and then, burning incense, incant them with the very same mantra one hundred and eight times
One should bestrew the cloth with the blossoms of the ironwood tree, pannay tree, bulletwood tree, and the flowers of champak, Arabian jasmine, dhānuṣkārika jasmine, and royal jasmine
Then, sitting on a bundle of kuśa grass and facing east, with a settled mind and thoughts directed to all the buddhas and bodhisattvas, one should take hold of a fine-tipped brush and, with a relaxed mind, commence the painting. {.
“First one should paint the Tathāgata Śākyamuni, endowed with all of his excellent forms, his body marked with the thirty-two marks of a perfect man and adorned with the eighty minor characteristics. He sits on a jeweled lotus, his form surrounded by a halo of light to the distance of one fathom all around
He teaches the Dharma with a serene expression. {.} “Beneath the great throne in the center, which consists of a lotus with a strong beryl stalk, are two nāga kings—Nanda and Upananda—who support the stalk
They should be painted in half- human , half-serpent form, looking at the Tathāgata and greeting him with their right hands
A lotus pond should be painted surrounding them that is filled with lotus leaves and flowers with opening buds and teeming with aquatic creatures such as birds, fish, and so forth. All the figures throughout it should be of exquisite form. {.
“At the base of the stem of the Blessed One’s lotus spring several other lotus flowers, all growing progressively higher. To hi
left, eight lotuses should be drawn with the figures of the eight great bodhisattvas seated upon them. {.
“On the first lotus is Noble Mañjuśrī. His color is either whitish like the filaments of a lotus or golden like saffron. His form is that of a divine youth with the features of a young male child
On his head are five decorative locks of hair, and he is ornamented with all the adornments of a divine youth
In his left hand he holds a blue lotus
and with his right he salutes the Tathāgata, at whom he is directing his gaze. His bodily form is charming and peaceful, with a slightly laughing countenance, and a halo of blazing light encircling him. {.
“The noble Candraprabha should be painted on the second lotus, also in the form of a divine youth
On the third should be Sudhana
on the fourth, Sarva­nīvaraṇa­viṣkambhin
on the fifth, Gaganagañja
on the sixth, Kṣitigarbha
on the seventh, Anagha
and on the eighth, Sulocana
All of them should be painted as divine youths ornamented with the corresponding adornments. {.
“To the right of the Blessed One there are another eight great bodhisattvas, all of them, except Maitreya, adorned with all types of jewelry
The noble Maitreya, who is next to the Blessed One, wears the attire of one who is celibate and has a topknot held up with a crown
His body is golden colored and his robes red ocher
His silken upper garment is red
His elegant form is marked with the triple line of an ascetic
Inside his left arm he carries a staff with a water jar suspended from it, and he has a black antelope skin thrown over his left shoulder
With his right hand he holds a rosary and greets the Tathāgata at whom he directs his gaze. His mental activity has its basis in mental absorption. {.
“On the second lotus is Samantabhadra, his body the dark color of the beautyberry flower and adorned with all types of jewelry
In his left hand he holds a wish-fulfilling gem and in his right a bel fruit, which he holds out in the boon-granting gesture
He should also be painted with a charming form. {.
“On the third lotus is the noble Avalokiteśvara, white as the autumn moon and adorned with all types of jewelry
He wears a topknot and a crown and is invested with a white sacred thread
On his head is the noble omniscient Amitābha, sitting nestled in the ends of his matted hair—wondrous and beautiful in form and possessed of the ten powers
He should be painted holding a lotus in his left hand and displaying the boon-granting gesture with his right
His mental activity is grounded in mental absorption, and his body is surrounded by light. {.
“On the fourth lotus is the noble Vajrapāṇi, with a vajra in his left hand
Golden in color, he is adorned with all kinds of jewelry. His right hand is clasped around a fruit and displays a boon-granting gesture. His charming form is of gentle aspect
His body is adorned with long and short pearl necklaces, and a pearl necklace serves as his sacred thread. He wears a crown studded with sparkling jewels, short trousers of fine cloth, and an upper garment of white silk
Just like the noble Avalokiteśvara and Samantabhadra, he wears a cloak used for visiting holy bathing places, and his appearance is as previously described. {.
“On the fifth lotus is the noble Mahāmati
on the sixth, Śāntamati
on the seventh, Vairocana­garbha
and on the eighth, Apāyajaha—these bodhisattvas, too, should be depicted
They hold in their hands fruits and books, are adorned with all types of jewelry, and wear an upper garment and short trousers of fine silk. {.
“Above them should be painted the eight pratyeka­buddhas, attired in monks’ garb
Their robes are red ocher and their bodies possess the marks of a great being. They sit cross-legged on seats of jeweled lotuses in serene absorption, surrounded by halos of blazing light
While painting the picture, one should strew the cloth with fragrant flowers such as royal jasmine, Arabian jasmine, dhānuṣkārikā jasmine, blossoms of the pannay tree and ironwood tree, and so forth. {.
“To the left of Lord Śākyamuni and above Noble Mañjuśrī one should paint a lofty palatial maṇḍala, decorated with many gems and adorned with the king of mountains
It has the shape of a mountain entirely covered with precious stones
There one should paint the eight blessed buddhas, as listed below. {.
“The first, Ratnaśikhin, should be painted adorned with jewels the color of beryl and with an aura of light extending one fathom all around him. He shines in all directions with the glow of many exquisite jewels, such as rubies, sapphires, emeralds, beryls, and so forth. His body of a tathāgata has the soft color of the rising sun. He wears the yellow robes and upper garment of a monk, sits in the cross-legged posture, and expounds the Dharma
His outer garment is yellow
His body is armored with the thirty-two marks of a great being and is also adorned with the eighty minor marks
He is of peaceful appearance and in all aspects excellent. Thus should Tathāgata Ratnaśikhin be depicted. {.
“The second, Tathāgata Saṃkusumita­rājendra, should be painted in golden colo
“Tathāgata Śālendra­rāja should be painted as the third. He is of the color of lotus filaments and is expounding the Dharma
The fourth to be painted is Tathāgata Sunetra
the fifth is Duḥprasaha
the sixth is Vairocana, the Victorious One
the seventh, Bhaiṣajya­vaidūrya­rāja
and the eighth, Tathāgata Rājendra, the pacifier of all suffering
All of them should be depicted endowed with tathāgata forms of golden color, displaying the hand gesture of granting fearlessness. {.
“Two gods from the realm of the Pure Abode should be painted among the clouds above the tathāgatas, each in an upper corner of the canvas. They should be depicted releasing a rain of flowers
Standing in the midst of space, they salute all the buddhas, bodhisattvas, pratyeka­buddhas, and the noble śrāvakas. {.
“Beneath the pratyeka­buddhas should be painted the eight great śrāvakas, seated separately near the bodhisattvas’ heads
They are Elder Śāriputra, Mahā­maudgalyāyana, Mahākāśyapa, Subhūti, Rāhula, Nanda, Bhadrika, and Kaphiṇa. {.
“The eight pratyeka­buddhas are Gandhamādana , Candana, Upariṣṭa, Śveta, Sita, Ketu, Nemi, and Sunemi
All of them are beautiful, serene, and self-controlled
They and the great śrāvakas fold their hands in reverence, looking at the blessed Buddha Śākyamuni. {.
“Above them should be painted two more gods, near to the other two gods of the Pure Abode. They hold a long, elegant canopy of fine cloth, spreading it above all the buddhas, bodhisattvas, pratyeka­buddhas, and noble śrāvakas. They should be depicted wearing celestial garlands and clothes. {.
“Above the head of Lord Śākyamuni one should paint a bundle of jeweled threads, including strings of pearls, gems, rubies, sapphires, and so forth
On this bundle, there should be a well-arrayed canopy of silk, decorated all around with hanging strings of pearls. {.
“Below the lotus seat of Lord Śākyamuni, near the base of Noble Mañjuśrī’s feet and to the side of Upananda, the king of nāga s, one should paint a great jewel mountain, rising up from a lotus lake. The mountain is overgrown with jeweled sprouts, vines of coral, and jeweled trees; it abounds in gorges and hidden caves and is frequented by great sages and siddha s. {.
“On the mountain’s summit one should paint Yamāntaka, Lord of Wrath, most terrible in form, holding a noose in his right hand and a staff in his left
He knits his brow and looks at Noble Mañjuśrī, awaiting orders
He has a ‘wolf’s belly’ and upwardly flowing hair. His body color is that of collyrium or a dark cloud
He has a reddish beard, prominent fangs, long nails, and red eyes
He is adorned with snakes coiling around his neck and clothed in tiger skin. Extremely fierce, he destroys all obstacles. One should thus paint Yamāntaka, Lord of Great Wrath, with flames blazing all around him. {.
“Below this mountain, one should paint the practitioner sitting on a slab of stone, with his knees touching the ground, and with an incense censer in his hand
He holds the emblems consistent with his dress and form and acts in the attitude of obedience
He should be depicted with his gaze directed at Noble Mañjuśrī. {.
“Near Nanda , the king of nāga s, and off to the right below Lord Śākyamuni, one should paint the great jewel king of mountains rising from a lotus lake, as previously described
This time one should paint it without Yamāntaka, Lord of Wrath 
also it should be bestrewn with celestial flowers and located below the noble Avalokiteśvara. This tall and lofty mountain should be painted as made of ruby, with a single summit made of beryl in the shape of a sprout. {.
“Resting there should be painted the goddess who is the compassion of the noble Avalokiteśvara embodied—the noble Tārā. She is adorned with all types of jewelr
and wears a red bodice and brightly colored silken garments
Her whole body is adorned with feminine adornments. In her left hand she holds a blue lotus
Her body color is golden and her waist slim, but not overly so. She is neither too young nor too old
Her mind is absorbed in meditation, and she is awaiting an order
Her body is slightly bent forward with her right hand displaying the boon-granting gesture, and so forth
She sits in a cross-legged posture, turning her gaze slightly toward Avalokiteśvara
She is surrounded by a halo of blazing light. {.
“There, on the jeweled peak made of beryl, completely enclosed and shaded by a pannay tree whose branches are all covered in flowers with buds fully open, is the blessed Tārā
The tree’s overspread branches are bent down with fresh sprouts, in a variety of shapes, bright and colorful
The goddess Tārā should be painted looking ahead. {.
“The goddess removes all obstacles And is the ultimate destroyer of fear
For the protection of the practitioner, She should be painted as the virtuous granter of boons. {.
“The goddess takes the female form And arises, along with her ten powers, from compassion
She should be painted granting the boon Of good fortune to all beings. {.
“The goddess is the mother of the divine youth— Mañjughoṣa of great splendor
In order to completely remove The practitioner’s every obstacle, {.
“To ensure protection by the rulers of men, And to bring prosperity, she should be installed on the canvas
The supreme Lord of Wrath, Situated at the top of his mountain, {.
“Has been taught by the most excellent Victor and his sons For the sake of destroying all obstacles
Very terrifying, most venerable, Very fierce, and of great splendor, {.
“He is primed for restraining beings Who are hostile to the teachings
For the practitioner, however, He is a remover of all obstacles. {.
“Violent and of a wrathful disposition, He is the mantra deity to be summoned
Most terrible and frightening, He wards off all who are cruel. {.
“He brings under control the unsubmissive Who commit evil and violent acts
Whether they dwell in the sky, on earth, In subterranean realms, or anywhere else. {.
“He destroys all evildoers Who oppose the teachings of the Sage
Thus one should paint the cloth Four sided, with four corners. {.
“At the bottom edge of the cloth, There is an area with rivers
Throughout it one should paint nāga s, one by one, With their distinctive hoods expanded. {.
“Their pure, white bodies Are half human in form
Raising up their torsos, Their hands are folded in constant reverence. {.
“One with seven hoods, of great valor, Ananta by name, is referred to as ‘great lord.
Adorned with jewels and gems, He directs his gaze at Tathāgata Śākyamuni. {.
“Of very beautiful and charming form, He is adorned with jewel ornaments
Known as the great king of nāga s, He should be painted with a garland of blazing light. {.
“He exerts himself for the good of the entire world
Fully engaged in applying the teachings of the Sag
In order to remove all obstacles
One should paint him as dwelling in a river. {.
“This is the supreme painting procedure That was taught by the victorious ones
It has been taught before in brief and at length By the tathāgatas. {.
“Any wise person who paints it Will gain infinite merit
The bad and dreaded karma Accumulated over millions of eons {.
“Will be annihilated the very moment One beholds this painting here on earth
Therefore, one must not withhold this painting From those who have committed the five acts of immediate retribution {.
“Or who are undisciplined or detestable, Who commit all kinds of evil acts While lost in the darkness of saṃsāra And dragged from birth to birth. {.
“Simply beholding the painting will bear fruit for them— So it was taught by the lords of sages
As soon as they see it, that very moment They will be freed from their evil. {.
“What need then to speak of those who maintain purity In their body and in their speech, Who perform their recitations And are diligent in relying on mantra? {.
“The merit that has been accumulated by the totality of beings Through religious worship over a million eon
Will be obtained by a practitioner of mantra Who does this painting here on earth. {.
“Buddhas—including the pratyeka­buddhas And the foremost sons of the victorious ones— Will come in numbers equal to the grains of sand in the Gaṅgā, Whatever their number is said to be. {.
“Merely upon seeing this painting A person will gain the same meri
“Whoever simply describes it, Makes offerings to it, or rejoices in it Will certainly accomplish the mantras That are employed in every rite. {.
“Whatever worldly mantras have been taught By the victorious ones, the most excellent of men, Or their pupils, the śrāvakas, or the pratyeka­buddhas, Or the divine bodhisattvas, the great beings
All these mantras will be accomplished In front of this foremost of all paintings.” {.
This concludes the fourth chapter, the first in the detailed section on the procedure of cloth painting, from “The Root Manual Mañjuśrī,” the Mahāyāna sūtra that forms a garland-like basket of bodhisattva teachings
Now, Lord Śākyamuni, looking at the entire assembly, spoke to Mañjuśrī, the divine youth
“There is, Mañjuśrī, yet another procedure from your ritual of cloth painting—the medium one. I will teach it now, so listen well and duly reflect upon it. {.
“First, to produce the medium painting, thread should be used as previously described, following the same procedure as before
The work should be done by craftsmen who have been trained beforehand, applying the same measurements as the previous cloth
Just as before, the cloth should be of excellent quality, white, tightly woven, and thoroughly clean and have fringe tassels. The painting should then be executed using uncontaminated paints free of hairs, dust, or other debris, with everything done just as before, except for the sizes and forms of the painted figures. {.
“First one should paint the realm of the Pure Abode, its form beautiful in every respect, abounding in things made of jewels, and adorned with garlands of white pearls
Portrayed in the middle should be Lord Śākyamuni, sitting on the lion throne expounding the Dharma and excellent in every aspect. {.
“To his right is Noble Mañjuśrī, the color of lotus filaments, saffron, or the sun, with a blue lotus near his left shoulder. With the palms of his hands folded in reverence, he looks toward Lord Śākyamuni
He has the form of a divine youth, with a gentle smile on his face, and his head is adorned with a crown of five decorative locks of hair
He is ornamented with the adornments of a young boy and inclines his head toward his right knee. {.
“To the left of Lord Śākyamuni is the noble Avalokiteśvara, white as the autumn moon and painted just as he was described before
but this time fanning the Blessed One with a yak-tail whisk
To his left, arranged one next to the other, are the noble Maitreya, Vajrapāṇi, Mahāmati, Śāntamati, Gaganagañja, and Sarva­nīvaraṇa­viṣkambhin
They should be painted as before and adorned with all kinds of jewelry. {.
“Situated above them the eight blessed buddhas should be painted in a standing position, displaying the boon-granting gesture with their right hands
their bodies covered in the yellow robes of a monk and an upper cloak
With their left hands they hold the corner of their robes
The well-fitting robes are yellowish with a slightly red hue. They are surrounded with halos of light and are excellent in every aspect
The blessed buddhas that should be portrayed are the tathāgatas Saṃkusumita­rājendra, Ratnaśikhin, Śikhin, Viśvabhuk, Krakucchanda, Bakagrīvin, Kāśyapa, and Sunetra. {.
“To the right of the Blessed One and near Noble Mañjuśrī should be depicted the great assembly
The eight great śrāvakas and eight pratyeka­buddhas should be painted exactly as before
except that the noble Mahā­maudgalyāyana and Śāriputra are standing up and fanning Lord Śākyamuni with a yak-tail whisk. {.
“The gods from the realm of the Pure Abode, Śakra, the lord of gods, and Suyāma , as well as the gods from the heavens of Tuṣita, Sunirmita, Śuddha, Vimala, Sudṛśa, Atapas, and Ābhāsvara should also be included. In addition, Brahmā Sahāmpati and the gods from the Akaniṣṭha heaven should be included. These and other gods who dwell in the realm of form and the realm of desire should be painted arranged in sequence, near to Noble Mañjuśrī
They should be painted arranged in tiers above the assembly with their respective features and dress. {.
“Below the lion throne of the Blessed One, a great mountain should be painted rising from a great ocean and extending up to the edges of the canvas
In one corner of the canvas should be depicted the practitioner in the same form and dress as in real life. He should be depicted with his head inclined toward his knees and holding an incense holder in his hand
On the same jewel mountain, below Noble Mañjuśrī, is Yamāntaka, Lord of Wrath . He should be painted as previously described. {.
“To the left of the Blessed One, below his lion throne, and near to the soles of the noble Avalokiteśvara’s feet
the Goddess Tārā should be painted sitting on that jewel mountain. She should be depicted exactly as previously described
The canvas should be strewn all over with flowers, such as champak, fragrant blue lotus, royal jasmine, Arabian jasmine, dhānuṣkārīka jasmine, and blossoms of the pannay tree, ironwood tree, and so forth. {.
“And above, in the upper two corners, two gods should be painted releasing a great flood of flowers
They each have variegated, bright forms and rest within rain clouds in the midst of space
They should be depicted as white and flying. {.
“This painting, which is called ‘medium,’ Is produced for the sake of good fortune
For people here on earth It brings middling accomplishments. {.
“Any bad karma previously accumulated By one wandering in saṃsāra Will be destroyed instantly Through merely seeing this painting in this life. {.
“Circling throughout the five destinies, Deluded people do not know this
Those, however, who have seen This painting of Mañjughoṣa in its medium version, {.
“Even if they commit offenses Such as the five acts of immediate retribution, Even if they lack morality, they will succeed At the various mantras that have been taught. {.
“Having done their recitation They will swiftly gain accomplishment
The sick will be freed from their illness, The poor will obtain wealth
The childless will obtain sons When they behold the medium painting. {.
“As soon as they see it, They will obtain merit great and vast
Such a person will certainly come to partake In the happiness of gods and human
And will definitely attain buddhahood At the end of this birth. {.
“Through merely drawing or describing it, Likewise through worshiping it, making copies of it
Viewing it, or touching it, One will be freed from all negativity. {.
“So also, through requesting this painting of great splendor, Or requesting the instructions thereof, One will obtain a fruitful life And swiftly win happiness. {.
“It is not possible to express in words, Not even in millions of infinite eons, The merit and its results one would obtain Through merely seeing this painting.” {.
This concludes the detailed fifth chapter, the second in the detailed section on the procedure of cloth painting, from “The Root Manual of Noble Mañjuśrī,” an extensive Mahāyāna sūtra that forms a garland-like basket of bodhisattva teachings
Now, Lord Śākyamuni again addressed Mañjuśrī, the divine youth
“There is, Mañjuśrī, yet another secret cloth-painting procedure, a third type, referred to as ‘smallest,
by the means of which all beings can effortlessly win accomplishment. {.} “Following the procedures as previously described, skilled craftsmen should prepare a cloth one width of the Buddha’s hand across that is in the same four-sided shape as before
The painting should then be done with the paints as previously described. {.} “First one should paint Noble Mañjuśrī, sitting on a lion throne with the form, as before, of a young boy expounding the Dharma. He should be painted as having a charming form that radiates light
To his left, the noble Samantabhadra stands on a dais of precious stone
with his right hand extended forth holding a yak-tail whisk and his left hand holding a wish-fulfilling gem
As before, he should be painted in the dark blue color of the beautyberry flower
To the right of Noble Mañjuśrī stands the noble Avalokiteśvara on a dais of precious stone
As before, he has a yak-tail whisk in his [right] hand and a lotus in his left
He should be drawn with his form haloed in blazing light. {.
“Below Mañjuśrī’s lion throne should be painted a golden-colored mountain, extending down to the edge of the canvas
In the corner at the edge of the canvas, below the lion throne of Noble Mañjuśrī and to his right, Yamāntaka, the Lord of Wrath , should be painted with the same details as before
The practitioner should be painted as before, holding an incense holder. {.
“Above Noble Mañjuśrī should be painted Tathāgata Saṃkusumita­rājendra, sixteen fingers tall, sheltering in a cave on a jeweled mountain
Its ten peaks should be drawn to resemble palaces
Around the perimeter of the cloth one should draw a ring of mountains
Above, perched on the front slopes of the mountains located in the two upper corners of the cloth, are two divine sons from the realm of the Pure Abode, named Śuddha and Viśuddha, who scatter heaps of flowers that float in arrays. They should be painted [with the same details] as before
The painting should be drawn with various flowers placed all around it. {.
“The entire threefold description Has now been given
The painting called ‘smallest’ Is the best for minor rites. {.
“Whatever evil has been committed or caused to be committed, All this terrible karma, Accumulated over thousands of eons, Will be purified through merely seeing this painting. {.
“As soon as this painting is seen, At that very moment the karma will be purified
A wise person who paid respects To thousands of millions of buddhas “Will not obtain even one sixteenth of the merit Obtained through merely seeing this smallest painting. {.
“A wise man will obtain the same merit By merely looking at this smallest painting As he would obtain by worshiping All the protector buddhas
In this life he will thus perform Meritorious acts leading to good fortune. {.
“However many mantras Have been taught by the sages Brahmā and Indra; By Vainateya, Varuṇa, Āditya, or Kubera; {.} “By all the rākṣasas, Dhanada and so forth; By the lordly dānavas or mahoragas; By Soma, Vāyu, Yama, and so forth— Any that have been taught by Viṣṇu or Śiva— All these mantras brought here before this painting Would be accomplished. {.
“One should always perform pacifying And enriching rites in this way
Violent acts ought to be shunned, As they have been condemned by the best of victors.” {.
This concludes the detailed sixth chapter in “The Root Manual of Mañjuśrī,” an extensive Mahāyāna sūtra that forms a garland-like basket of bodhisattva teachings. This chapter contains the third procedure, that of the “smallest” painting
Now Mañjuśrī, the divine youth, rose from his seat
circumambulated Lord Śākyamuni three times clockwise and, having prostrated at his feet, said this to the Blessed One
“Good! It is good that you, the blessed one, the tathāgata, the worthy one, the perfectly awakened one, gave this Dharma discourse in such a clear wa
for the benefit, the welfare, and the happiness of all who observe their vidyā vows and in order to show your compassion for the world
You exemplified the bodhisattvas’ skill in means with this particular method that takes them higher than nirvāṇa and, with their continuous dedication to the goal of awakening, accomplishes their conduct consistent with all the goals of the mantras
This will promote the spread of this secret mantra among all people. {.
“In the future, when the teachers of the world have entered nirvāṇa and the sun of the tathāgatas has set—when their lineages have ended and all the buddhafields are empty of all the buddhas, bodhisattvas, noble śrāvakas, and pratyeka­buddhas; when the inhabitants of the world have become blind with ignorance
when the noble eightfold path has been cut and the medicine of all the vidyā mantras that are like precious gems is lost; when the world spheres have gone dark, devoid of good people 
at that time, beings will be lazy because of lack of interest; they will lack faith, will be willfully destructive, and will not rely on spiritual friends
They will be deceitful and treacherous, and they will act like rogues. {.} “Such people, when hearing this Dharma discourse, will become frightened
Indulging in idleness and apathy, they will lack faith
Seeking sensual enjoyments, they will lack conviction
Delighting in wrong views, they will generate a lot of negativity
Rejecting the true Dharma, they will move from one terrible state to one even worse, bound for Avīci Hell. For the sake of those suffering like this, to enthrall the unsubmissive and
once they are enthralled, to grant them fearlessness, please muster your skill in means
O Blessed One, and teach them the procedure of painting involving mantras if you think that the time is right.” {.
Then Lord Śākyamuni applauded Mañjuśrī, the divine youth
“Good, Mañjuśrī! It is good that you ask the Tathāgata about this matter
There is, Mañjuśrī, your most secret and detailed teaching on another procedure of cloth painting, with its associated conduct and practice of the vidyā observances
It includes the supreme and most secret meaning of the mantras of the ultimate essence—the great meaning that is the foundation of all mantras. {.} “These six six-syllable mantras of the ultimate essence will, at that time, lead to an accomplishment without a doubt
I too will now teach what was previously taught by seven hundred and sixty million buddhas in order to tame such beings, to help them develop the skill in means, to cause them to take up the practice of the mantra, and to invariably bring them to perfect awakening
Focusing on the people of the future, listen well and reflect on the meaning thoroughly
I will now tell you, so what are they?” {.
Lord Śākyamuni then pronounced the mantras
“ Oṁ vākyārthe jaya
“ Oṁ vākyaśeṣe sva
“ Oṁ vākyeyanayaḥ
“ Oṁ vākyaniṣṭheyaḥ
“ Oṁ vākyeya namaḥ
“ Oṁ vākyeda namaḥ. {.
“These six mantras of yours, Mañjuśrī, each numbering six syllables, are of great power and equal in their great potency
They are the supreme heart mantras that bring the highest accomplishment, as if they originated from the Buddha himself. They have been proclaimed by every buddha for the benefit of all beings
They involve and activate the samaya and are suitable for all types of activity
They are signposts for the road to awakening and are the most important mantras of the Tathāgata family 
They can be employed in all three levels of ritual, the highest, the medium, and the lowest
They bring the ripening of the fruit of virtuous karma
They will lead to accomplishment at the time when the Buddha’s teaching has disappeared. {.
“For those who will have succeeded in finding, for the sake of protection, a true Dharma guide, these mantras will, even through only basic application, accomplish the goals of kingship, good fortune, and great powers. They will swiftly lead them to accomplishment at that time and juncture
Therefore, these supreme heart mantras should be accomplished even if it were only out of curiosity
In short, in whatever way they are employed, they will lead to corresponding accomplishments
The painting procedure involving these mantras will now be presented in brief. {.
“At that time, during the terrible period of five degenerations, beings will have very little merit
They will be petty, with short lifespans and little happiness
Being weak in diligence, they will not even be able to begin the very elaborate rites for the painting procedures
It is for their benefit that I will teach a very short procedure. {.
“First, one should purchase thread with due care, one pala or half a pala in weight, and commission a weaver to make a cloth one cubit long and half a cubit across, together with a fringe
Alternatively, one should obtain a different, new piece of cloth that is free from hairs, measuring—as one prefers—two, four, six, five, ten, or eight cubits from top to bottom, and very white
and one should have the painter do the painting according to one’s wish. {.
“It should be painted using uncontaminated paints infused with sandalwood, camphor, and saffron
First one should mix together sandalwood, camphor, and saffron into a homogenous substance and blend this with water free of living organisms and impurities
One should soak the cloth in a vessel with this mixture, cover it well with a lid, and leave it for three days
Then, having performed the protection rite, in a clean place, having ritually purified oneself, during the bright fortnight, on the full moon day, one should sit on a bundle of kuśa grass in front of the vessel with the cloth in it and, facing the east, recite the words of the following mantra one hundred and eight times: {.
“ Oṁ he he ! O blessed one with many forms and the divine eye, look after me, look! Remember your samaya! O great bodhisattva with the form of a divine youth, why do you delay? Hūṁ hūṁ phaṭ phaṭ svāhā! {.
“Having recited this mantra, one should go to sleep right then
While asleep, one will receive a sign whether the procedure will be successful or not
Upon awakening, one should commission the painting without delay if one’s dreams indicated success
If the dreams conveyed no sign of success, one should take the cloth out of the vessel and dry it in the sun. When dry, one should again place it in a different new vessel
One should keep it well hidden, and also do the protection rite over it
Then, choosing whichever among the six-syllable heart mantras given previously one wishes, recite its syllables one hundred thousand times
One will then be able to swiftly accomplish the cloth-painting procedure. {.
“To begin, one should take this cloth, and, during the prātihāra fortnight, or any day during the bright fortnight when the stars are auspicious, and during an auspicious lunar asterism
“The painter should first paint Noble Mañjuśrī with the form of a young boy, his hair in five locks, and dressed with all the adornments of a boy. Golden in color, he wears short trousers and a shirt of blue silk
He expounds the Dharma while sitting on a lion throne in the cross-legged posture with his right foot placed on a jeweled footstool and his left on the seat of the lion throne
Adorned with all types of jewelry, he is of charming appearance. Smiling slightly, he is directing his gaze at the practitioner. {.
“On his right side should be painted the noble Samantabhadra, waving a white yak-tail whisk
He is of the dark blue color of the beautyberry flower. In his left hand he holds a wish-fulfilling gem
He is beautiful in every limb and adorned with all types of jewelry
He wears short trousers of blue silk and is invested with the sacred thread made of a garland of pearls
He should be painted standing on a white lotus. {.
“The noble Avalokiteśvara, white as the autumn moon and wearing short trousers of blue silk, should be painted to left side of Noble Mañjuśrī
Beautiful in his every limb and adorned with all types of jewelry, he is invested with the sacred thread made of a garland of pearls
He holds a white lotus in his left hand, and with his right he holds a white yak-tail whisk with a golden handle, which he waves
Peaceful in form, he, just like the noble Samantabhadra, directs his gaze at Noble Mañjuśrī. Both of them should be painted standing on white lotuses. {.
“Next, three lotuses spring from a single stalk. On the pericarp of the middle, primary lotus is the lion throne of Noble Mañjuśrī and his jeweled footstool
On the second lotus the noble Samantabhadra stands on a white lotus seat
On the third lotus is the noble Avalokiteśvara
The beautiful, emerald-like stalk rises from Anavatapta Lake, which is covered in lotus buds with leaves, half-opened lotuses, and lotuses in full bloom. This lotus stalk is supported by two nāga kings, Nanda and Upananda. {.
“These two nāga kings should be painted as white, each of them adorned with seven hoods
Their bodies, adorned with all types of jewelry, are half human , and the other half is distinguished by the coils of a snake
With their [lower] bodies submerged in water, they direct their gaze at Noble Mañjuśrī. They are shaded with parasols decorated with jewels. {.
“In the right corner of the cloth, on the margins below the great lake, the practitioner should be painted looking at the orb of Noble Mañjuśrī’s face
He holds an incense holder in his hand and inclines his head toward his knee
He should be depicted with all the respective details of dress and colors. {.
“Above Noble Mañjuśrī, in the two corners at the edge of the cloth, two divine sons wearing garlands and holding garlands of flowers should be painted
They float nestled within clouds and release a great flood of flowers. Both are very beautiful
Blossoms of the ironwood tree and so forth should be painted strewn all around the cloth
“They may be painted as the practitioner pleases
but these three figures must be included—the noble Mañjuśrī expounding the Dharma and the noble Samantabhadra and Avalokiteśvara, both of whom are painted with yak-tail whisks in their hands
Optionally, other forms may be added as desired, arranged according to their respective places
Whatever forms the practitioner finds agreeable, these forms may be painted. {.
“Noble Mañjuśrī should always be painted in the middle, with the noble Avalokiteśvara and Samantabhadra on either side. The other forms, however, can be painted as preferred
One can also use any piece of cloth as available, which could be one vitasti or one cubit in size and either do the painting oneself or have it done by any painter whether he observes the fast or not, has faith or not, is pure or impure, or of good or bad morals
If, however, the practitioner does the painting himself, he must certainly first complete the preparatory rites, have faith, and have given rise to bodhicitta. {.
“In this way the mantras will be accomplished, But not for those who commit evil
Accordingly, once faith has been developed, The mantra deities will be accomplished. {.
“The mantra kings will be accomplished through this ritual Only by those who have faith, not otherwise
Because faith is the supreme vehicle Traveled in by the spiritual guides themselves. {.
“For a person without faith The white Dharma will not grow
Just like green shoots From seeds burnt by fire. {.
“But if an ordinary person is confirmed in faith And has begun working toward awakening, He will accomplish the deities
If he has no faith, he will not. In particular, he will not Accomplish any mantras. {.
“Whatever worldly deities there are, And whatever are beyond this world, All of them, free from stain, Will be accomplished by those with faith. {.
“Swiftly will they gain accomplishment, And their awakening is certain, if they direct their minds to it
No attainment is said to arise for the others Who have turned from this teaching. {.
“The painting procedures—the small, the special, And the middle—have now been taught
Presently, I will teach the practice That accomplishes all activities.” {.
This concludes the detailed seventh chapter, which is the detailed fourth chapter on the cloth-painting procedure, from “The Root Manual of Noble Mañjuśrī,” an extensive Mahāyāna sūtra that forms a basket of bodhisattva teachings
Now Lord Śākyamuni addressed Mañjuśrī, the divine youth
“The full topic of the cloth-painting procedure, Mañjuśrī, has now been taught by me for the benefit of those beings you foretold
They will succeed even with little skillful means. For their benefit I will now teach a sādhana method classified according to the type of activity, describing at length its different virtues. Listen to it well, and reflect upon it thoroughly. I will speak for the benefit of all beings.” {.
The divine youth Mañjuśrī, in turn, said to the Blessed One, “Good
It is good, O Blessed One, that you will give this eloquent exposition that illuminates our incisive meditation and causes the qualities of mantra practice to fully manifest
So do teach this method, Blessed One, if you think that the time is right. Do so out of compassion for us.” {.
Lord Śākyamuni looked then at the entire assembly and smiled
At that moment rays of blue, yellow, and translucent crystalline light issued from the mouth of Lord Śākyamuni
As soon as these rays issued forth, they illuminated the entire assembly and dimmed the worldly realm of the great trichiliocosm, including the abodes of all the māras
This included the light of the entire multitude of stars, celestial bodies, mountain ranges, and the moon and the sun, those two luminaries of great power and might, which were also dimmed by the light of Śākyamuni’s rays
They lost their radiance and did not illuminate the worlds. They did not shine and appeared dark
The rays dimmed also the jewel light of all gems, mantras, and medicines and then disappeared back into Lord Śākyamuni’s mouth. {.
Bodhisattva Vajrapāṇi, the great being, was present at that time in the midst of this great gathering
Seated, he rose from his seat in his beautiful form pleasing to beings, prostrated at the Blessed One’s feet, and said this to him
“It is not without a cause or a reason that the blessed buddhas smile
What is the cause, Blessed One, what is the reason for your smile?” {.
Being thus asked, the Blessed One said to Bodhisattva Vajrapāṇi, “It is so, Vajrapāṇi, it is so
It is exactly as you say
The smile of the tathāgatas does not happen without a cause or a reason. There is a cause, there is a reason
future beings will take up and follow this king of the lords of sūtras, this root manual of Mañjuśrī, which arose out of the tenth bodhisattva level, Cloud of Dharma—a collection of skillful methods such as ritual practices that involve knowledge- vidyā s and practicing the right conduct
Future beings will study this manual in full, memorize it, spread it by word of mouth, and put their faith in it. {.
“Having written it down in the form of a book, they will worship it with sandalwood powder, ointments, incense, flower garlands, parasols, flags and banners, or other different means, in particular with the music of various instruments and cymbals. Through that they will attain a continuous mental state of inner rejoicing that makes their bodily hair bristle with joy
Learning about the power and efficacy of vidyā s, they will be thrilled, rejoice, an
will take up the right conduct. I predict that all of them will become blessed buddhas, established in supreme, perfect awakening
It is for this and no other reason that the victorious ones smile. {.
“To start, one who observes his samaya of, who has completed the preparatory rites for, and who has been ritually initiated into this king of manuals should choose either the root mantra, heart mantra, subsidiary heart mantra, or another mantra, whether of one syllable or another one as desired and go to a large forest
There one should recite the mantra three million times
living on fruits, water, roots, or leaves
This constitutes the preliminary practice. {.
“One should then climb to the top of a mountain and position the superior painting so that it faces the west
Then, sitting on a bundle of kuśa grass and facing east, one should offer, below the painting, one hundred thousand white lotuses smeared with white sandalwood and saffron to Lord Śākyamuni and all the buddhas, bodhisattvas, pratyeka­buddhas, and noble śrāvakas
One should burn camphor incense according to one’s mean
and make offerings to the gods and nāga s of whatever flowers are available. {.
“Then, at the midnight hour, on a bright full moon night, the completely full moon of the prātihāra fortnight, one should dig, in front of the painting, a fire pit in the shape of a lotus and kindle the fire using white sandalwood sticks
One should blend together saffron and camphor and offer it into the fire one thousand and eight times, [or as many times] as one can
[In this way] one becomes ritually protected. {.
“Then rays of light emanate from Lord Śākyamuni, encircle the painting, and envelop it with blazing light
The practitioner, in a form pleasing to beings, should then circumambulate the painting three times clockwise
bow to all the buddhas, bodhisattvas, pratyeka­buddhas, and noble śrāvakas
and take the painting into his hands. {.} “As soon as one grasps the end of the cloth where the practitioner had been painted earlier, one will fly upward
In the snap of a finger, one will ascend to the realm of Brahmā
One will reach the world sphere called Kusumāvatī, where dwells Tathāgata Saṃkusumita Rājendra
There he upholds, maintains, and expounds the Dharma
One will see there Noble Mañjuśrī in perso
and will hear his Dharma discourse
One will also see many hundreds of thousands of bodhisattvas and attend upon them. One will live for one thousand great eons, enjoying freedom from old age and death. {.
“The painting also remains ther
and is blessed by all the buddhas and bodhisattvas
one can clearly feel the blessing
One will be able to visit hundreds of thousands of buddhafields
display hundreds of thousands of bodies
and develop many magical powers
Noble Mañjuśrī will become one’s spiritual friend
and one will be destined to attain awakening.” {.
This concludes the eighth chapter of this extensive Mahāyāna sūtra that forms a garland-like basket of bodhisattva teachings. This chapter constitutes the detailed first chapter on the ritual involving the supreme sādhana method
Now Lord Śākyamuni addressed the hosts of gods who were sitting among the entire assembly
“Esteemed friends! Please listen to my discourse about the method for accomplishing the conduct, maṇḍala, and mantra of Mañjuśrī, the divine youth. Hear this great vidyārāja —the supremely secret and sublime heart mantra that was taught by all the tathāgatas for the sake of protecting the practitioner—by the uttering of which all mantras are uttered. {.
“This vidyārāja , O hosts of gods, is inviolable
With this vidyārāja even Mañjuśrī, the divine youth, can be summoned, enthralled, and made to comply
Why say more
There are, O bodhisattvas, other mantras, both worldly and transcendental, but this unique mantra of great valor and power is said to be the best of all mantras—it can destroy all obstacles
Among all one-syllable mantras, only this one is called the syllable. {.
“This single syllable fulfills all purposes and accomplishes every task
it nullifies all the mantras of evildoers and removes all sins
it makes all the other mantras effective
it brings that which is virtuous
It surpasses all other worldly and transcendental mantras
It is the impeccable essence of all the tathāgatas that fulfills all wishes. Which mantra is this
It is kḷlhīṁ. {.} “Friends, this most secret vidyārāja called One Syllable can be employed in all rites. No being may transgress it
it constitutes the auspiciousness of all the buddhas
it makes all mantras effective; it is the master of the worlds; it is the lord of all the lords of wealth; it is the love for all those who hate; it awakens the compassion of all beings
and it is the remover of all obstacles
In short, whatever it is employed in, that very thing it will accomplish
It can perform tasks even when it is not fully mastered. {.
“Whomever one touches while reciting this mantra will become enthralled
If one wears incanted clothes, one will obtain good fortune
If one bites an incanted tooth stick, one will get rid of a toothache
If one bites an incanted tooth stick from the white oleander tree, food will be found without one’s having to ask for it. {.
“If one has eye pain, one should grind sea salt, incant it seven times, and apply it to the eye. This will remove the pain
If one has an earache, one should take a mushroom that has grown in elephant dung while it thundered, wrap it in a leaf of kedhuka, and cook it over a low fire until it is well cooked
Having then added a lukewarm solution of sea salt, one should incant the decoction seven times and pour it into the ear
The pain will be assuaged at that moment. {.
“If, at the time of giving birth, a woman is having a difficult delivery and is overcome with pain, one should grind the root of Malabar nut with water that is free of living organisms and smear it over the navel area. She will give birth with ease
If a person with a splinter in his flesh drinks old ghee incanted one hundred and eight times, or smears it over the affected area, the splinter will come out. {.
“In the case of indigestion with vomiting and dysentery, one should incant seven times some sochal salt, sea salt, or other type of salt, and eat it
One will be free from this disease the same day and will become well
In the case of the twofold dysentery or a sudden dysentery, one should mash the fruits of citron with water that is free of living organisms and has been incanted once or more. By this method one will be freed from the unpleasant symptoms. {.
“In the case of a barren woman, or a woman who wants but is unable to conceive, one should cook the root of winter cherry with ghee, blend it with cow’s milk, and dilute it with more milk
One should incant it twenty-five times and give it to such a woman to drink during her period, after bathing. The householder-husband, staying away from the wives of others and avoiding inappropriate sexual conduct, should then approach her sexually, or she him. She will then conceive a son. {.
“If she experiences bleeding within the next three to five years when she is with child
if she does not conceive a child for many years
if she is harmed by the mantra magic, medicines, or mudrās of others
if she suffers a miscarriage
if she falls ill
if there is any other disorder caused by others
or if she is poisoned by animate or inanimate, or natural or artificial means—if any of this was effected by the friendly or hostile use of any root or medicine mantras, one should chant the mantra twenty-seven time
and then grind old ghee with the moon-like eye of a peacock feather, making it homogenous. When it is finely ground, one should mix it with sugar and eat an amount the size of myrobalan fruit every day over seven days. {.} “The patient should be made to drink milk cooked with sugar
having incanted it again and again
If one has a headache, one should wipe the head with a crow’s pinion incanted seven times. One will become well. {.
“For female disease such as hypermenorrhea, one should grind the root of nīlikā together with milk, add to it some root of the indigo plant, and incant this one hundred and eight times. One should then blend it with milk and give it to the patient to drink
Similarly, in the case of a fever, be it a quartan, one-day, two-day, three-day, chronic, constant, or recurrent one, one should have the patient drink milk with ghee, incanted one hundred and eight times
The patient will become well. {.
“Similarly, if someone is seized by a ḍākinī or a graha, one should incant one’s own face one hundred and eight times and face the affected person
they will become well
Similarly, if someone is seized by any terrible and evil nonhuman being, such as a mātṛkā, a pūtanā that attacks children, a vetāla, or a graha that seizes children
one should incant one’s own hand one hundred and eight times and touch the affected person on the head
They will become well. {.
“A single repetition of the mantra will protect oneself
a double repetition, one’s friends
a triple one, one’s house
a fourfold one, one’s village
a fivefold one, everybody within the greater village area
up until, with one thousand repetitions, one may protect an army
One may perform these and all the other similar minor acts, even if one has not fully mastered the mantra. {.
“One who desires accomplishment should not engage in trivial activities
One should go alone to a secluded place at the source of a river that flows into the ocean or on the ocean shore, on the bank of the Gaṅgā, or on the bank of any big river
There, in a clean spot, one should build a hut
One should perform the threefold ablutions, wear the three garments, observe silence, and live on food obtained by begging or on the practitioner’s diet of milk, barley, and fruit. Living thus, one should recite the mantra three million times
Then, once the sign has been observed, one should commence the sādhana practice. {.
“On that location, in the same place, one should install the superior painting and offer a big pūjā with lamps of gold and silver, or of copper and clay, filled with olibanum oil or ghee, with wicks made of high-quality fabric. One should prepare one hundred thousand such lamps and offer all of them before the painting. {.
“With the lighted lamps evenly arranged in contiguous rows, light will radiate from the painting
The moment the light shines, the painting will be haloed with a blazing ring of light that pervades everywhere
In the sky above drums will sound and congratulatory cheers will be heard. {.
“At that point, a vidyādhara, in a form that delights sentient beings, will emerge from the corner where the practitioner is depicted on the previously painted cloth
One should give him a welcome offering, circumambulate him, bow to all the buddhas, and seize him
As soon as one has seized him, one will fly up together with all the beings holding lamps and, perhaps, ascend to , palaces
Surrounded by vidyādharīs playing divine instruments, singing songs in sweet voices, and dancing, one will be consecrated by them to kingship as a vidyādhara-cakravartin
Together with the holders of the lamps, one will revel in freedom from old age and death, endure for a great eon, have the luster of the rising sun and divinely beautiful limbs, and be adorned with a diverse array of garments. {.
“The vidyādharas, for their part, will become one’s servants
One will become a monarch of vidyādharas
One will have a long life and be unassailable
One will be the supremely fortunate one among all the celestial siddha s—an enthraller of vidyādhara girls
One will worship the buddhas and bodhisattvas with every substance
One will be able to ascend even to the world of Brahmā in an instant. One will not even need to consider Śakra, let alone other vidyādharas
In the end, one will attain the state of awakening
Noble Mañjuśrī will become one’s spiritual friend. {.
“There are, however, those practitioners whose sādhana practice is more intense. In such a case, one should go alone to a secluded place free from the distractions of attachment
One should retreat to a big forest and find a place where there is a lotus pond adjacent to a lonely mountain and fed by a stream
One should climb to the top of the mountain and, having chosen either the single-syllable vidyārāja taught in the Mañjuśrī’s manual of rites, one taught by the Tathāgata or another bodhisattva, or any other one prefers
one should live on lotus roots and milk products, recite the vidyāmantra three million six hundred thousand times. At the end of the recitation, one should install, following the same procedure as previously taught, the superior one of the previously taught types of painting an
prepare the lotus flowers smeared with white sandalwood and saffron paste. Having lit a fire of cutch tree sticks, one should offer into the fire the already-prepared lotuses thirty-six thousand times. {.
“Then, at the conclusion of the homa rite, rays of light will issue forth from the painting of Lord Śākyamuni
Having illumined the practitioner, they will dissolve into his head. As soon as one is touched by these rays, one will attain the five superknowledges
Having attained the levels of a bodhisattva, one will go about as one pleases in the form of a god
One will live thirty-six eon
and will traverse thirty-six buddhafields
beholding all their might
One will memorize the teachings of the thirty-six buddha
and will delight in worshiping and serving them
In the end, dedicated to the attainment of awakening
one will be wholly taken care of by the spiritual friend, Noble Mañjuśrī, right until the ultimate state of awakening, the final nirvāṇa.” {.
This concludes the ninth chapter of “The Root Manual of Noble Mañjuśrī,” an extensive Mahāyāna sūtra that forms a garland-like basket of bodhisattva teachings. This chapter constitutes the detailed second chapter on the ritual involving the supreme sādhana method
At that time Lord Śākyamuni taught yet another supreme ritual practice
“Having chosen another mantra from this king of manuals, one should go down to [the bank of] the great river Gaṅgā
Staying in a boat in the middle of the river, one should incant rice gruel mixed with milk three million times on the days of one’s choice
Subsequently, at the end of recitation, one will perceive all the nāga s
One should then start the main practice
For that, one should prepare, in the middle of the boat, a fire pit in the shape of a lotus
One should prepare a big offering of ironwood blossoms to the painting
The painting of the superior type should be positioned facing west, with oneself sitting on a bundle of kuśa grass facing east
One should incant each of the ironwood blossoms seven time
and offer it into the blazing fire of cutch tree sticks
One should do this until one has offered thirty thousand such blossoms, each smeared with white sandalwood and saffron paste
One should use nothing else
One should wait for the nāga s to appear
They will be enticed by the power substances, but will not take them. {.
“Then, at the conclusion of the homa ritual, one will fly up together with the boat
One will become a vidyādhara-cakravartin, and all the nāga kings will become one’s followers, acting as servants
One will live thirty intermediate eon
and will be able to act as one pleases
One’s activities will be unimpeded
One will be able to perceive Noble Mañjuśrī face to face
He will touch one on the head, and as soon as he has done so, one will obtain the five superknowledges
One will be certain to attain buddhahood. {.
“There is another supreme ritual practice. One should descend to the bank of the great river Gaṅgā and construct a boat from a single block of wood from the bilva tree. It ought to be well made and attractive. One should board it, bringing an oar of bilva wood
With this, one should propel the boat, employing a genuinely skilled assistant
One should have him row the boat, without leaving the great river Gaṅgā, in circles, across, or lengthwise
One should choose either the six-syllable root mantra, the eight-syllable mantra, the single-syllable one, or another, such as those of the wrathful deities, dūtas, or dūtīs, or yet another mantra
One should then install the painting of the superior type facing west, with the practitioner facing east
From this point onward one can conduct the ritual as one wishes. One should use either a dish of milk, barley, and fruit, or one of water, radishes, and fruit. One should observe silence, ritually bathe three times a day, and possess three changes of clothing. One should practice pure conduct, with a very pure mind
First, one should recite the mantra, in front of the painting, six million times, following the previously described procedure
Then, at the end of the recitation, the boat will be fit to sail across a big ocean. {.
“For that reason, the practitioner should collect the things that he will need and put them in the boat in advance
He should not be afraid when sailing across the great ocean. The boat will not be obstructed
It cannot be forced to turn back, except through the practitioner’s own will
He will thus be able to enter the big ocean in an instant even if this ocean is a thousand leagues away
so what need is there even to mention short distances? {.
“Having entered it, this home of all rivers, one should start one’s practice
Having lit a fire of cutch tree sticks in a previously constructed pit or a clay basin made by a potter, one should offer into the fire six million oblations of stamens of ironwood blossoms mixed with white sandalwood and camphor. These individual oblations could be either small or big. {.
“While one is offering the oblations, the rākṣasas who dwell in Laṅkā and assume many forms will cry, ‘Ha, ha!
The nāga kings who dwell in Bhogavatī , a city of the nāga s, will emerge from the water in their different forms, ranging from exceedingly fierce to very peaceful. These nāga s and rākṣasas will say, ‘Get up, sir, get up! Become our master !
In this way, the asuras, the yakṣa s, the gods, the mahoragas, the celestial siddha s, and all the humans will try to entice the practitioner
One should neither get up, nor be afraid. {.
“At that time, the adept of vidyās should, while reciting the mantra, threaten them with the index finger of the left hand
They will then disperse, running hither and thither, and be gone
Then, at the conclusion of the homa ritual, they will seize the boat together with the practitioner and, in an instant, take it to the realm of Akaniṣṭha 
One can thus go to and return from other world spheres
One will become equal in mental power to a bodhisattva
possessing the five superknowledges, great magical abilities, and great power
One will be able to see Noble Mañjuśrī at all times
All the nāga s, rākṣasas, gods, asuras, and every other being will come under one’s control, having been appointed to carry out one’s orders by all the buddhas, bodhisattvas, pratyeka­buddhas, noble śrāvakas, and those who have accomplished the mantra
They will be lovingly disposed toward the practitioner and act in his interest
so that he cannot be harmed by any being. {.
“There is another supreme ritual practice
One should commission the construction of a boat from a big log of bilva wood, or perhaps from the pieces of a single block of wood
One should construct a big wharf on an island in the middle of the Gaṅgā
One should build a boat docked at that place. In that boat, there should be one hundred and twenty passengers—each holding a flower and a lamp
who have performed the protection rite and are wearing white clothes
One should have them place the flowers and the lamps in front of the superior of the different types of painting, installed according to the previously described procedure
One should then perform a large pūjā in front of the paintin
and offer into the cutch-wood fire thirty-six thousand oblations of powdered ironwood blossoms mixed with saffron, white sandalwood, and camphor. {.
“Subsequently, at the conclusion of the homa ritual, the boat will ascend to the world of Brahmā in an instant
When one arrives there, one will be able to move around at will
One will perceive Noble Mañjuśrī face to face
As soon as one beholds him, one will attain the bodhisattva level
and the five superknowledges. One will live for a long time, enduring for one great eon
One will become the great monarch of the vidyādharas
who, holding lamps in their hands, will become one’s helpers
Together with them one will be able to wander as one pleases; one will be able to go wherever one wants to
One will delight in worshiping the blessed buddhas. In the end, one will be certain to attain buddhahood. {.
“There is yet another supreme ritual practice
One will accomplish the supreme ritual On a riverbank or an ocean shore, Or also on the snowy mountain— The king of the Vindhya range. {.
“One will accomplish the supreme ritual In the Sahya mountain range, In Arbuda, or on Gandhamādana Mountain— This three-peaked king of mountains— {.
“Or similarly, by the great ocean, Or on a mountain rich in trees and flowers
It is in these places that the mantras Taught by the victorious ones can be accomplished. {.
“In a secluded place in the wilderness, Free from the vulgar pursuits of lust
Will the kings of mantras be accomplished— In particular, in inaccessible mountain caves. {.
“The kings of mantras will be accomplished In pleasant places of retreat, The ones particularly recommended by the victorious ones, Free from wicked beings. {.
“Places where the king is righteous And people follow pure conduct
Where mothers and fathers are revered, And which are not without the twice born 
In such places and no others Will the deities grant an accomplishment. {.
“On the pleasant bank of the Bhāgīrāthī, Or the bank of the Yamunā, so beautiful
Or the Indus, the Narmadā, the Oxus, Or the clean bank of the Candrabhāgā, {.
“And also the rivers Kāverī, Sarasvatī, Or the Sitā, this great river of the gods
All these have been declared by the sons of those who possess the ten powers To be places of accomplishment. {.
“Among the places recommended by the those with the ten powers Are the mountain ranges of the north, Including in Kaśmīra, Tibet, Nepāla, and Kāviśa, {.
“And also all the places in China That bring various accomplishments, And the mountains and streams That are located in northern countries. {.} “Countries where people consume wheat and barley Have been declared to be meritorious
Where the inhabitants are compassionate, The accomplishments will certainly be attained. {.
“The great mountain, Śrīparvata, Renowned in the Deccan, And the temple in the glorious country of Dhānyakaṭaka, Where the relics of the Victorious One are kept here on earth— {.
“There the mantras can be swiftly accomplished For the sake of all ritual purposes
In the great temple of the Vajra Seat, Where the splendid wheel of Dharma has been turned, {.
“The supreme sage attained tranquility; There, also, can the accomplishment be seen
In the great temple where the Sage descended from the gods’ realm
In the country of Saṃkaśya, the place of great miracles; {.
“In the great city called Kapilavastu
in the best of the forests, Lumbini, Where the most eminent of people [was born]— There the kings of mantras bring accomplishment, In the places praised by the Victorious One. {.
“So, too, on Vulture Peak Mountain, Or the place called Śītavana
In the great, pleasant city called Kusuma, And always in Vārāṇasī; {.
“In Mathurā, Kanyakubja, Or the city called Ujjain
By the stūpa of Vaiśālī, Or in the place called Mithilā— {.
“Whatever cities and towns there are, Or other places with human population
If they are praised as places of merit, Accomplishments will be attained in them. {.
“Living in these and other places— Villages, hamlets, and market towns
Fine cities, the best of capitals, Cities located on rivers, rich in merit— {.
“And subsisting there on alms, one should joyfully engage In mantra recitation and homa ritual, Always occupying a place With an open space or empty area. {.
“One should do the preliminary practice Before commencing any mantra rites
The mantra practitioner, always in the center, Should recite the mantra with great yearning. {.
“Always engaged in recitation
The mantra adept should practice renunciation
Comport himself in a disciplined way, be truthful
And delight in doing good for all beings. {.
“First engendering faith in the mantra practice And keeping one’s observances, one should recit
In a clean place at a good location, Free from barbarians and thieves— {.
“A place where there is no harm From any creeping animals, A place abounding in fruits and flowers, Praiseworthy, and supplied with pure water. {.
“A mantra adept is praised [if he recites] All the mantras in no other places than these. The recommended sites are a temple, A cemetery, or a lonely mountain. {.
“A mantra adept also recites all mantras By a solitary lingam, or in a wilderness
“So, the reciter should always recite the mantra In those places with a focused mind, Because no merit shall be seen By one engaged in the affairs of the world. {.
“However, for the sake of mantra instructions, One may remain in the world for some time
Otherwise, one should go elsewhere
“Having obtained the samaya, one may remain In the world for a short time, not otherwise
Later the adept of mantras should, without delay, Go elsewhere, wherever he is able to. {.
“He should always dwell in places where there are The dazzling white reliquaries of the tathāgatas, And also all the holy sites in this world Where wrong doctrines are absent— {.
“The mantra adept should always avoid Other holy sites. An expert in mantras should not dwell in them, As they constitute the cause of bad rebirth. {.
“Instead, he should dwell in those places on earth That have been visited by the best of victors, The rhinoceros-like pratyeka­buddhas, the great bodhisattva beings, The śrāvakas, or the sons of the victorious ones. {.
“The mantra adept, reciting his mantra, Should frequent all these places
In such places he should always practice With great effort as previously explained. {.
“Knowing the right procedure, the mantra adept Should recite the mantra ever more
For through the recitation and the homa ritual He will remove all the evil of embodied beings
He should therefore recite the mantra With all his diligence and a focused mind. {.
“If one does not find, among those places that were taught for all rites, places for the practice of the rites that bring supreme accomplishment, one should perform the preliminary practices in any clean place anywhere
With faith and resolve, one should commence the supreme rites employing the sādhana method. {.
“To start, one should install the painting of the superior type facing west, with oneself facing east
One should take some clay, either from a fine anthill or from the bank of the Gaṅgā, and, optionally, [the root of] khaskhas grass, white sandalwood, and saffron
One should mix this very well with camphor and fashion from this an effigy of a peacock
One should place it in front of the painting and fashion with kuśa grass that has grown in a clean place, with the tips of the grass blades untrimmed, the shape of a ring
Holding this ring with one’s right hand in front of the painting, and the peacock with one’s left, one should, on the night of the full moon, offer to the painting a large pūjā, burning an incense of camphor. One should recite the mantra until daybreak. {.
“Then, at sunrise, this clay peacock will become the great king of peacocks
and the ring of grass will blaze with light. Oneself will become possessed of a divine body, adorned with divine garlands, clothes, and ornaments
One will be graced with a desirable form that resembles the rising sun
One should bow to all the buddhas and bodhisattvas, circumambulate the painting clockwise, take the painting into one’s hands, and sit upon the peacock as one’s mount
In an instant one will ascend to the realm of Brahmā
One will become the great emperor of vidyādharas, surrounded by many hundreds of thousands of millions of them
One will live for sixty eons of Manu
One will be able to go wherever one wants
and one’s movement will not be impeded. One will be endowed with divine good fortun
and be able to see Noble Mañjuśrī face to face. Mañjuśrī will become one’s spiritual friend and
in the end, one will attain buddhahood. {.
“Similarly, one should procure a mendicant’s staff, a water pitcher, a sacred cord, red arsenic and bovine orpiment, a sword, an arrow, a javelin, an axe, and [other] different kinds of weapons and also, made of clay, humans and animals, different types of birds for riding, lions, tigers, hyenas, and so forth, fashioning them from clay from an anthill or clay from a riverbank richly scented with pleasant scents. Likewise, one should procure conveyances provided with a chair or a bed, white parasols, various types of head ornaments, all types of jewels, and all the different requisites of one who has gone forth, including a rosary of rudrākṣa beads, sandals, wooden clogs, an alms bowl, an ascetic’s robes and staff, a needle, and a knife and any other implements made of ‘flower-metal,’ starting with a bowl. One should fashion them from flower-metal, clay from an anthill, or clay from the riverbank, and smear or sprinkle all of them with the five products of a cow. One should incant them one hundred and eight times with the purificatory mantra, one-syllable mantra, or any other mantra taught in this king of manuals, with the exception of the mantras employed in subsidiary practices
Having performed, as appropriate, the desired protection ritual for oneself and one’s friends, one who is well acquainted with the knowledge of the mantra system should secretly install, in any of the previously described places, the painting of the superior type facing west, with oneself facing east, and offer to it a large pūjā. Burning incense of camphor
one should grasp any one of the previously mentioned individual weapons and implements, fashioned as specified, and recite over it the mantra on a bright night of the full moon until sunrise. {.
“Immediately, the painting will appear enveloped in a great halo of light
If it was a mode of conveyance that was grasped by the practitioner, he will be able, after boarding it, to go wherever he pleases
If, on the other hand, it was an ornament or a weapon item, he will become, when holding it, a venerable vidyādhara-cakravartin
He will be able to go wherever he pleases, possessed of divine form, effulgent as the rising sun, enveloped in a halo of great light, with the body as bright as lightning. He will be the master of all vidyādharas
will live for one great eon, have a retinue of many hundreds of thousands of millions of vidyādharas, and live in a divine palace made of precious jewels and gems. {.} [The ability] that was perceived in the previously crafted conveyance, whatever [that being] was good at, will now become its great power
This being will become one’s conveyance for riding and a companion
Thwarting the minute powers of others’ mantras and employing the powers of one’s own, it will become compassionate at heart, desiring to benefit others, and always devoted [to the practitioner]. And whatever items of weaponry, ornaments, jewels, and so forth one took up, starting with the beings who serve as seat and bed conveyances, they will always follow the practitioner to give him good protection, cover, and shelter. {.
“One will obtain great power, energy, and a superb physical body
One will behold Noble Mañjuśrī face to face and be applauded by him
When touched by him on the head, one will receive the boon of spiritual friendship until one has reached the essence of awakening
One will definitely obtain the ten powers
One will be venerated by all being
and will never be assailed or defeated by spirits
One will not be separated from the lineage of the final goal and will attain the bodhisattva levels. One will follow the obligations of a bodhisattva consistent with the ten powers
In short, all the supreme rites should be performed in these supreme places, and one who delights in the supreme worship in front of the superior painting should only perform the supreme rites. {.
“One should become a sky-traveling vidyādhara—a bodhisattva endowed with the five superknowledges, established on the bodhisattva levels, and able to traverse the world spheres in this very body—in order to swell the lineage of the buddhas possessed of the ten powers, to be able to see Noble Mañjuśrī face to face, to give Dharma discourses that will bear fruit, to encourage others to listen to Dharma teachings, to prevent the lineage of the buddhas from dying out, to gradually attain omniscience, to reach the tenth bodhisattva level called The Cloud of Dharma, to dry up and pacify the afflictions with the rain of ambrosia, to continually confer benefits on the people of the world, to guard the Dharma eye of the Tathāgata, to make the doctrine of the Tathāgata bear fruit, to manifest the power of the sādhana methods that involve the mantra practice, and to propagate the teaching of the greatness of all the buddhas, bodhisattvas, pratyeka­buddhas, and noble śrāvakas. For all this, one needs to accomplish the complete teachings in this king of manuals. {.
“This ritual of the king of paintings should be accomplished following the procedure taught in all the tantras and manuals of worldly and supramundane mantras that are to be recited by the practitioner in front of the superior type of painting. Briefly speaking, it can be accomplished through the rites taught in this and also other manuals
These mantras will quickly bring on the accomplishment
Whatever I have taught here will definitely bring accomplishment.” {.
This concludes the tenth chapter of “The Root Manual of Noble Mañjuśrī,” an extensive Mahāyāna sūtra that forms a garland-like basket of bodhisattva teachings. This chapter constitutes the detailed chapter on the procedure involving the superior painting
Now Lord Śākyamuni looked again at the realm of the Pure Abode, and said this to Mañjuśrī, the divine youth
“There is, Mañjuśrī, in your ritual, a painting procedure of the medium type, a practice procedure serving as the means for accomplishing middling rites
I will teach it in brief, so please listen carefully and reflect upon it well. I will teach it now.” {.
Mañjuśrī, the divine youth, for his part, said this to the Blessed One
“May the Blessed One, the teacher, full of compassion for the world and delighting in benefiting all beings, speak! Please speak, if you think that the time is right, out of compassion for us and regard for future generations.” {.
Having been thus addressed by Mañjuśrī, the divine youth, the Blessed One said this
“Listen, Mañjuśrī. All the rites involved in the practice of the mantra conduct will bear fruit and not be futile for those who, first of all, are firmly established in discipline, ritual observances, purificatory acts, ritual obligations, mantra recitations, homa ritual, and the meditation methods. Then, the application of all the mantras will swiftly lead to success
Why is this so? I will explain that
Listen, O divine youth! {.
“To start, one should assume the disciplined conduct and observances pertaining to the practice of vidyā s
First, one should take the samaya pledge according to the instructions of the maṇḍala master as clearly taught in your king of manuals
One should acquire a learned master who has received the ‘master empowerment’ ( ācāryābhiṣeka ) and has the acumen of a spiritual instructor
Such a master should possess the Dharma that is virtuous and clear and be truthful, diligent, grateful, steadfast, good natured, not too old and not too young, free from desire with regard to all gain and favors, and celibate
He should be compassionate, but not merely on account of desire or based on sensual pleasure or emotional attachment. He should not speak untruth out of strong delusion and greed, let alone due to trivial reasons
He should keep his promises and be equanimous toward all beings, have compassion for them, and practice generosity
He should have completed the preparatory rites and the preliminary practice that involves the recitation of your secret mantra and have gained [therefrom the requisite] knowledge
He should have entered your maṇḍala according to the right order of succession
He must understand the ways of the world and also know the ritual procedure
He should be kind, industrious, and wise. He must practice goodness and be fearless, free from hesitation or vacillation, stable, and diligent
He should not be afflicted by any disease that would render him inactive, and he should be disciplined. He should come from a great and illustrious family
These are the qualities that the maṇḍala master should be endowed with. {.
“The practitioner, for his part, should be either the same as him or lacking in some attributes
After worshiping such a maṇḍala master, he should supplicate him as follows
“ ‘I would like to enter the samaya with you, master, who are identical with the great bodhisattva, the divine youth Mañjuśrī
Out of the master’s kindness, please instruct me with a benevolent and kind mind.’ {.
“The maṇḍala master then, following the same procedure as previously explained, should examine the disciples as before and usher them in
He should give the empowerment as before and give them the mantra
He should then explain the stages of samaya and the secret tantra, mudrā, and rites
After examining them for a long time and determining their character, he teaches them the rites for all tantras, mantras, and so forth
He should not teach this to anyone else. This is the accepted procedure. {.
“The disciple, for his part, should gratify the maṇḍala master with anything that may be pleasing to him, and offer himself and the enjoyments. {.
“The maṇḍala master should then regard the disciple as his son, and treat him as such
Like a mother, he should offer him comforts and enjoyments. {.
“The disciple then, having obtained a particular mantra, should retire to a secluded area, to a place as previously described in more detail, and
in short, employ this mantra for the summoning, dismissing, and offering to the deities a bali consisting of lamps, perfume, and incense, following the elaborate procedure that has been taught as part of the maṇḍala instructions
He should thus summon the deity and present it with a welcome offering and a seat at the three junctions of the day
He should perform ritual ablutions three times a day, wear the three-piece apparel of an ascetic, and recite the mantra every day
Regarding the junctions of the day, the first junction is said to be from the end of the night until the sun is four angular cubits above the horizon
The second junction is said to be at midday, for as long as the center of the sun disk traverses in the sky the distance of four cubits
The third junction is said to be at sunset, for as long as it takes the sun to move the full distance of four cubits. {.
“One should approach a master who is learned and skilled And has taken up the vow of disciplined [conduct]
One born in a great and illustrious family, Steadfast and diligent in every respect. {.
“He must be actively engaged in the art of mantras And be skilled and judicious in all tasks
He should be subtle, have expert knowledge of mantras, And always uphold the domain of Dharma. {.
“He should have great perseverance and ardor And be unconcerned about worldly affairs
He must have faith in the teachings of the Sage And shun the teachings of worldly masters. {.
“He must have performed the required mantra recitations, Have discernment, and have done the preliminary practice
He should understand the mantra of Mañjughoṣa And have complete confidence in it. {.
“He should also know the worldly magical rites That employ mantras taught by the Buddha
He should have performed the protection ritual, Have unwavering strength, and always delight in pure conduct. {.
“He must follow, in all respects, The path shown by the Buddha
He should be engaged in the recitation of the mantra taught here, Described by the Victorious One as perfect. {.
“Seeing that the fruits of one’s actions Come without fail, even in the afterlife
He would be wary of any evil, Even as small as a tiny particle
He should be pure, adroit, not lazy, Intelligent, and pleasant to behold. {.
“Whatever mantras have been taught by those with the ten powers And by the sons of the same, the victorious ones, And whatever worldly mantras there are, And also those in the Vajra and Lotus families, He should always exert himself in their study, Absorbing the meaning from the written treatises. {.
“He should not be diseased or disabled, Neither too old nor too young
He should have accomplished the mantra and be protected by it. He should operate efficiently in every respect. {.
“He must not procrastinate, be free of haughtiness, And specifically understand bodily expressions
Celibate and with great insight, He should be solitary and not mingle. {.
“He, the hero, must have obtained an initiation Into this tantra, taught by Mañjuśrī
He should have reached the end of his recitations And have gained the understanding. {.
“He should have great dignity, understand the ways of the world, And reflect upon the reality of the different states of rebirth
He should apply himself diligently to the practice of virtue, Be generous, and delight in benefiting beings. {.
“A master distinguished in this way Should always be supplicated
As the maṇḍala containing mantras written by him Will lead to accomplishment. {.
“An empowerment bestowed by him Will bear great fruits
Such a master should always be venerated as a sage By the disciples who desire accomplishment. {.
“His instructions must not be disobeyed But should be followed by the disciples with diligence
He should be given objects of enjoyment, Whatever are available, according to one’s means— {.
“A gift big or small, Or any gift that will please the master
Just as the father’s body and mind Constitute the cause for the existence of one’s own body, {.
“In the same way will the disciple who knows the Dharma Obtain renown, accomplishments
Long life, and good health, If only he offers his wealth to the master. {.
“A disciple who reveres his master Will make excellent progress
His mantras will bring accomplishments Once the path of ritual procedures has been explained. {.
“All the buddhas rejoice, And so do the foremost sons of the victorious ones, When the teachers are served, adored, And worshiped respectfully. {.
“All the gods are pleased With any kind act done to a teacher
All this pertains to teachers Who impart the knowledge of mantras. {.
“If he has not done this already, The practitioner should first enter into the samaya bond
Regardless of whether he is a person of equal Or superior position to the teacher. {.
“Neither an ignorant nor a brilliant disciple Should ever disrespect the master
He should instead apply himself to the tantra In which he has been instructed
“A previously trained disciple Should harbor no jealousy toward the master, But instead should have an eye That is the embodiment of growing love. {.
“The master is himself the cause For the development of the disciple
A bond of love should stretch Between their two minds. {.
“While maintaining a loving mind He should offer the mantra to the disciple
Whenever the disciple sees the master, Or the master sees the disciple, {.
“They should always be joyful, Remain practicing together
And at all times focused On the path of mantric conduct. {.
“Both of them, the father and the son, Knowing the mantra, will reap the results
Both the disciple and the teacher Will find stability and joy. {.
“The son—the dear Dharma child— Should always be diligently protected
The uninterrupted condition of the buddhas Is present also in them. {.
“If the buddhas are absent and beings are without a protector, The mantras should be given to them just as they are taught
They should be given in particular to those beings Who are destitute or powerless
Mantra practice is excellent For all beings without exception. {.
“This mantra practice can be done at all times By those of the lowest, highest, and medium capacities
And can be used to bring benefit To all beings on any occasion. {.
“This mantra conduct should be given to those who seek it After determining their state and origin
The disciple, for his part, Should train in whatever mantra he desires. {.
“One who desires accomplishment should follow The path taught [here], and no other
One should travel on this path, Superior to other paths. {.
“One should bow to the master with one’s head As if to one’s father, and then depart, wherever one pleases
One should go to a secluded place And recite the mantra, fully focused. {.
“Sustained by food obtained through alms, Observing silence except for the three recitation sessions a day
One should follow the path, Just as it was previously taught. {.
“Then, following this conduct, One should frequent various places of abode
Such as great forests, mountaintops, And also clean riverbanks, {.
“Secluded cow pens and forts That are devoid of people
Empty temples, trees, Solitary lingams, mountain peaks, {.
“Pleasant shores of the great ocean, Sandy islands
Or various other places as previously described, Pleasing to the mind. {.
“One should recite the mantra in these and other places With a well-focused mind
In the company of friends endowed with auspicious marks And trained in philosophy and conduct for the sake of mantra practice. {.
“They ought to know the nature of gestures And be the same as or similar t
Brave men victorious in battles, Who are honest and patient, {.
“Who have faith in the mantra practice And the related doctrine taught by the Victorious One
Who are endowed with the excellent auspicious marks, And who are patient and forbearing. {.
“A practitioner who has such companions Will accomplish all activities without toil
He should rise from his bed early And wash himself in clean water, {.
“The water from a stream or a big pond That is free of living organisms
Such a mantra adept should rub his body With powdered clay or cow dung {.
“And then, having purified with the mantra Some clean water free of any dirt
Should perform ritual ablutions while reciting the mantra. He should not miss the right time for these acts. {.
“Accordingly, after rising up [in the morning], He should stand on the bank and cleanse his hands with clay— Seven, seven, and again seven times— Twenty-one times in all. {.
“He should then sit down there, And clean his teeth with a tooth stick
Having spat out the washed-off matter, He should praise the Protector. {.
“Having praised the protector of the world, He should make offerings pleasing to the mind
Praising him, again and again, With complimentary hymns of praise. {.
“Also, while reciting, he should offer to the Teacher A welcome offering of fragrant flowers
Bow with his head to the buddhas And then to their disciples. {.
“He should confess his wrongdoings In front of these protectors of the world
And place food and refreshments In front of the painting of middling type. {.
“He should prepare a seat of kuśa grass And sit there with a focused mind
He should recite the mantra with keenness, Using a rosary of rudrākṣa beads. {.
“He should only recite the mantra that he was given, And not any other mantra
In a voice neither too low, Nor, indeed, too loud. {.
“In the rites of the medium type, The vow holder should always recite the mantra the ‘medium’ way
He should resolutely avoid speaking loudly, Nor should the words be too low. {.
“In the rites of the medium type, the ‘medium’ speech Was described by the Victorious One as the best
So one should recite not too loudly And not too low, but always in between
All the buddhas of the past Employed their voice in the best possible way. {.
“One should not recite the mantra near to other people, Or within their range of hearing
But in a hidden place known only to oneself, Reciting in a voice of medium volume. {.
“If one engages in recitation in this way, The meaning of any mantra will be clearly heard
One should keep reciting this mantra If one desires accomplishment of the medium type. {.
“Consequently, the reciter should chant the mantra In a secluded place where no one gathers
A place devoid of people, But where the essential meaning of the mantra can be clearly heard. {.
“He should recite during the second half Of the second half of the fourth division of the night
When the copper-red disk of the sun Is four angular cubits above the horizon, {.
“For that is how the buddhas, the best of men, Have designated the ‘first junction.
The ‘yoke length’ is the length of four cubits, Proclaimed as the ‘medium’ [length]. {.
“One should stop the recitation After the sun has risen up into the sky
Having stopped reciting the mantra and dismissed [the deity], The vow holder should make an offering to send [it] away. {.
“For the rest of the time henceforth, One should devote oneself to this expert instruction of the Sage
One should venerate the teachings, and so forth, of genuine Dharma, As found in the Prajñāpāramitā and other literature. {.
“Also the books, such as the one called Daśabhūmika, Should always be venerated and read aloud
When the prescribed time has arrived, One should bow to the buddhas, the best of men, {.} “And to one’s mantra, the lord of mantras, And then depart for the sake of sustenance
Observing thus the prescribed regimen, Eating at the appointed time, and controlling one’s senses, {.
“A Dharma practitioner should always exert himself In the pure training as taught by the Buddha
Observing silence, one should go to another village, Always delighting in pure conduct. {.
“The mantra reciter should seek alms Only in houses where Dharma is followed
Where the water is filtered and free of living organisms And the food is known to be pure. {.
“A house where the housewife has correct views And where there is faith in the Buddha’s teachings
It is in such a household that a mendicant Should always seek and receive alms. {.
“Just like a well-equipped warrior Would enter the heat of a battl
And destroy his opponents without fail, Without himself being harmed by the enemy, {.
“So should a mantra practitioner, Who lives on alms, always enter a village
When seeing pleasing forms, Or hearing pleasant sounds, {.
“One should, in order to appease the passions, Contemplate that which is pleasant as unpleasant
Seeing a female body Adorned with the gracefulness of youth, {.
“One should contemplate it being impure and smelly, Disgusting with its pus, urine, and so forth
Deposited in a cemetery and slimed over by worms— A body that is impermanent and a source of suffering. {.
“The childish, ignorant of mantra, Cycle through the five destinies
Strung upon the thread of karma, They wallow in misery for a long time. {.
“Such fools, steeped in ignorance And blind from birth, create for themselves causes of suffering
Beings with warped minds sink in dejection Because of things they are attached to. {.
“Dressed in the costumes of different types of karma, Excited in many different ways
For a long time they are mounted upon swings And pushed back and forth. {.
“Engaged in their dance, They are impelled to follow its steps
Addicted to what is impure, Beings remain despondent for long periods of time. {.
“Being born in the waters of the ocean of existence, There is no end to their births, Which are awash with the water of suffering, Like a well bucket is awash with the water from the well. {.
“For women have been declared by the buddhas To be nothing but the root of suffering
So also said the śrāvakas, the bodhisattvas, The pratyeka­buddhas, and the sages. {.
“Their minds led astray by women, Beings drown in the ocean of cyclic existence That cannot be disturbed And is impossible to dry up. {.
“They then wander through the six realms: The hells and animal realms, The realms of hungry ghosts and of the asuras, And the realms of gods and of men. {.
“ Men wander throughout all these destinies, Powerless and deluded on account of women
Sinking in the great mire— This prison of the ocean of saṃsāra. {.
“ Men fooled by craving for women Are like jackals fooled by rotten flesh
Beings suffer acute pain Because of things they are addicted to. {.
“If they take up the Buddha’s teaching, Even those who previously corrupted the virtuous Dharm
Will stop all suffering And be no more in the ocean of saṃsāra. {.
“Those who are keen on and enjoy mantra recitation Know great renown, are free of craving
Are majestic, are a friend to the downtrodden, And are free from all suffering. {.
“Self-controlled and knowing the great truth, They worship the master and the deities
They are devoted to their mother and father And do not suffer on the account of women. {.
“Those who apply the teachings on the absolute truth Perceive that which is impermanent to be empty and fraught with suffering
Such mantra reciters regard the female body The same as goiter. {.
“Naive sensualists, though, who are of little intelligence, Are unable to escape saṃsāra
One who is consistently attached to women Will not gain accomplishment. {.
“Such a person’s conduct will be undistinguished; It will not even be mediocre. A reciter without discipline Will not gain even the smallest accomplishment. {.
“The lord of sages did not prescribe mantra practice For the ill disciplined
As it would not lead to the city, Land, or even the direction of nirvāṇa. {.
“For a debased fool such as this, How could his mantra succeed
For a person fickle in his discipline, What pleasant state could be found? {.
“Heaven is not for him, Nor a happy departure from this world
Let alone an accomplishment Of mantras taught by the Victorious One. {.
“When the crown of a palmyra tree Has been cut off, How will fresh green shoots arise When the tree has no greenery? {.
“So have been described the prospects of Accomplishing the mantra for those who are foolish in this life
The ill-disciplined evildoers Who develop attachment to women again and again
How could the king of mantras bring success When one is associating with a nonvirtuous teacher? {.
“A mantra reciter should therefore always be self-controlled And never stray into vice. Those who avoid contact with women Will gain accomplishment. {.
“No accomplishment is described for the others— The childish ones smitten by women
On the other hand, the wise ones who dislike schisms, Who are pure and associate with skillful friends, {.
“The steadfast heroes of the noble family, Who are kind hearted and pleasant to behold
Who understand the distinction between right and wrong, Will gain accomplishment without difficulty. {.
“A mantra adept, conducting himself as described, Should enter a village in order to seek alms
He should go to a place as previously described That is pleasing to him. {.
Once he has settled in a clean place, Living on alms and keeping his thoughts pure, {.
“He should wipe his feet And go out of his dwelling once again
Using water free of living organisms, He should place his right hand on his right calf {.
“And his left hand on his left calf, And rub them. To prepare his right hand, He should cleanse it by wiping it {.
“Seven times with pure and clean clay That has been prepared before
Then he should place, In a clean and stainless pot, {.} “Some fresh cow dung excreted from a brown cow And purified by the mantra
He should add to it water that is free of living organisms And draw with this mixture the maṇḍala of the Teacher. {.
“Thus, one should first draw the maṇḍala of the best of sages, Which should be, preferably, one cubit in diameter
Then second, the maṇḍala of the lord of one’s own mantra
And third, of one’s family deity. {.
“The mantra practitioner should always draw the maṇḍala Of that deity whose mantra he is reciting
The fourth maṇḍala is said to be For the enjoyment of all sentient beings. {.
“On the right, one should always draw The maṇḍala of the lord of the world
Which is for all the Three Jewels, And should be square in shape. {.
“Second is the maṇḍala for pratyeka­buddhas
And the third for the sons of those endowed with the ten powers
These seven maṇḍalas Should all have four corners. {.
“One should draw them either one cubit, Or half a cubit in diameter, every single day, In a secret place. Then, reciting every day, One will be able to purify one’s sins. {.
“When rising after the ritual, The mantra practitioner should wash his hands carefully
He should perform ritual ablutions in clean and pure water, Free of living organisms. {.
“The water should be taken, carefully, From a spotlessly clean and pure dish
From a big lake, a stream, A pond, a spring, or a river. {.
“The water must come from a clean place And be drawn by a pure being
The mantra practitioner should touch it Always two or three times. {.
“He should then wash his mouth, And likewise both his ear lobes, . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
His eyes, the cavities of his nose, and his arms. {.} “He should sprinkle the pure water On his head and his navel Five or seven times, Doing everything according to procedure. {.
“Following a ritually pure regimen, The mantra practitioner, himself purified
Should take his alms bowl And go to a natural receptacle of water {.
“Where a stream of water is dammed, Or at the water’s spring. He should always wash the alms In the current of a flowing river. {.
“After that, he should get up And go back to his monastery or dwelling
Whichever dwelling he had stayed at, There he should go. {.
“Having reached that place, The reciter should put down his alms bowl
He should then quickly perform the ritual ablutions, And take hold of his bowl once again— {.
“A bowl that may be made of clay, Leaves, silver, gold, Copper, or cassia bark— And offer food to his teacher. {.
“Offering the food to one’s teacher, One should utter either one’s own mantra or the king of mantras
Welcoming a lone visitor, one should also offer to him Or to the poor, according to one’s means. {.
“Whenever one offers food, One does not need to give an excessive amount
A mantra adept should not do what is damaging to himself, But always act sensibly. {.
“He should set aside what will fill his stomach; The rest should always be offered away
One who is afflicted by hunger and thirst Will not be able to accomplish his mantra practice. {.} “On the other hand, one who does not eat too much Or too little will be able to attend to his mantra practice
The lord of the victorious ones therefore said About all beings that possess a body, {.} “And who find sustenance in food— Food that gives life to humans, Gods, asuras, gandharvas, Nāga s, yakṣa s, or kinnaras, {.} “Rākṣasas, pretas, piśācas, Bhūtas, utsārakas, and grahas— That there is not a single one of them That would not depend on the content of his food bowl. {.
“The Tathāgata has proclaimed That some beings live on material foods That are taken by mouth, While others depend on subtle foods. {.} “Deities who inhabit the form realm Live on the food of dhyāna
Gods in the formless realm Are nourished by the fruits of samādhi. {.
“Beings in the intermediate state Are said to depend on food too
Beings in the desire realm Are nourished by a wide variety of foods
“It has been taught therefore by the victorious lords That based upon karmic causes, Sentient beings are sustained by food
This is well known to all. {.
“For someone who always engages in mantra recitation The act of eating is a matter of necessity
One who relies on food Will be able to practice the mantras. {.
“If one’s conduct is completely pure, And one is competent and lives a celibate life
Such a mantra adept, relying on food, Will attain accomplishment without difficulty. {.
“He is then like a carter of a cart Who has oiled the axles well, Because he can [travel] for a long time And is able to convey heavy loads. {.
“So, too, a mantra adept with knowledge of mantras Should use food for sustenance
A mantra reciter should always take nourishment For the upkeep and sustenance of his body, {.
“As this is necessary for the accomplishment of mantras And also constitutes a cause for the two provisions for awakening
Consequently, one should recite the mantras, As this benefits beings in this world of mortals. {.
“For this reason the supreme sage, The previous buddha known as Kāśyapa
One of great splendor, taught At that time, on that occasion, upon the earth. {.
“He taught the following mantra For the well-being of living beings
All those afflicted by suffering, Miserable, stricken with poverty, {.
“Weary, resigned, and oppressed; For their sake he spoke this mantra
He taught it for the welfare of beings Who keep circling in saṃsāra. He taught this best of all mantras So that beings may find nourishment. {.
“He said, ‘May all the śrāvakas and all the bodhisattvas, Who reside in awakening, listen
Please receive from me the words of this mantra, The mantra that removes all ailments. {.
“ ‘Those of you who are oppressed by the scourge of hunger, And those who are thirsty, Hear [this mantra] to have all your suffering pacified; Those desiring prosperity, listen well!’ {.
“At these words of the supreme sage, Kāśyapa of great splendor
All the śrāvakas, their hearts full of joy, Supplicated the Sage thus: {.
“ ‘Please tell us this mantra, O great sage, O Dharma king who knows Dharma
You care for living beings in the utmost. The time has now arrived.’ {.
“Having been thus addressed, the best of sages Taught the mantra in full. With the sound of his voice, sweet as a cuckoo bird’s And as powerful as a drum or a thunderclap, {.
“This great, valiant man with the voice of Brahmā, The Victorious One, the foremost of brahmins, said
‘Please listen, O hosts of beings Who have assembled here. {.
“ ‘I will now say, for the sake of all beings, Whether they are legless, many legged, Two legged, or four legged, The mantra that brings happiness. {.
“ ‘I will say it for the sake of past and future beings, And also beings of the present time who have assembled here
I will speak briefly, so please listen If you desire prosperity. {.
“ ‘Homage to all the buddhas, the perfect teachers
“ ‘ Oṁ , bring everyone to your celestial palace in the sky, quick, quick! Remember your samaya pledge! O summoner, do not tarry, do not tarry! Give me good fortune 
“Having said this, Lord Kāśyapa remained silent. {.
“As soon as Lord Kāśyapa, the perfectly awakened one, spoke the words of this mantra in full
the entire sky appeared filled with a cloud consisting of choicest foodstuffs
The entire great trichiliocosm appeared to have its sky canopied with a cloud consisting of food
Whatever food the beings desired to satisfy their individual needs, whatever food they wished for, that had manifested for them
Whatever food preparations the beings desired to appease the pains of hunger, whatever drinks the thirsty ones wanted to drink, a stream of water along with the eight articles of offering, [all this] fell down exactly wherever it was wished for. {.
“All the beings, for their part, had on that occasion, at that particular time, the suffering of their hunger completely pacified and all their thirst completely removed
The entire assembly became greatly amazed and elate
and rejoiced at the Blessed One’s words
Joyfully they bowed their heads to his feet and disappeared at that very moment
Lord Kāśyapa, for his part, said
‘Lord Śākyamuni and I sojourned on earth as tathāgatas. At that time this mantra was taught in this king of manuals and celebrated.’ {.} “This mantra ought to be accomplished for the benefit of all beings, in particular the mantra reciters, to remove their hunger and thirst
just as it was previously accomplished by the reciter [Kāśyapa]
If one does not feel up to wandering around for the sake of alms, one should climb to a mountaintop and recite that mantra six hundred thousand times, living on the three pure food products or milk dishes. {.
“There, on the mountaintop, one should install the medium painting of Noble Mañjuśrī and, as before, offer a big pūjā [followed] by a big bali offering of food
Employing the mantra taught by Kāśyapa and other perfectly awakened buddhas, one should make a fire of cutch tree sticks and offer into it, [while reciting the mantra], one thousand and eight sticks of either the cluster fig or bilva tree, nine inches long, [moist with sap], and smeared with curds, honey, and ghee. {.
“Then, at the midnight hour, a great whirlwind will arrive in the form of a black cloud
One should not be afraid, nor should one get up or approach it
Just as before, one should effect protection for oneself and the protective binding of the maṇḍala for one’s companions by means of the eight-syllable heart mantra of Noble Mañjuśrī
The black whirlwind will subsequently disappear
and in front of the practitioner will appear women adorned with all types of jewelry. One of them, with a halo of light illuminating the space around her, will say, ‘Rise up, O great being! You have reached accomplishment.’ {.
“The practitioner should then give her a welcome offering of water with floating jasmine flowers
At that very moment she will disappear
On that very day, she will give to the practitioner and twenty-five of his companions, or whomever the practitioner fancies, foodstuffs and any useful objects that they may want
At that point the practitioner should give a farewell offering and circumambulate the painting clockwise three times. He should then take the painting
bow to all the buddhas and bodhisattvas three times, and go to a place of his choice that is conducive to sādhana practice as previously described, such as a big forest, a mountaintop, or any uninhabited place
There, he should build a hut and live there alone or with companions
While living there, he should do the rites that involve sky travel, and so forth. {.
“As before, the practitioner should sit on a bundle of kuśa grass, place the medium painting before himself, and, as before, light a fire of cutch tree sticks
He should offer one thousand and eight oblations of white flowers smeared with curds, honey, and ghee, three times a day for twenty-one days. {.
“Then, at the end of the homa ritual, at the midnight hour, one will see Noble Mañjuśrī in person
He will grant a desired boon
such as the ability to fly, become invisible, an attainment of a bodhisattva level, the state of a pratyeka­buddha or a śrāvaka, the five superknowledges, long life, a great kingdom with its many pleasures, the affection of a king, or the ability to commune with Noble Mañjuśrī himself
In short, he will grant whatever one may wish for
Or whatever one may ask for, that he will give
One may obtain all the power substance
or be able to magically summon great beings
In short, he will do anything the way it is described to him
He may also purify one’s former transgressions. This was taught by Lord Śākyamuni. {.
“Another practice procedure that constitutes the means of accomplishing medium rites will now be taught
To start, one should select a place in a clean area or a sandy bank of a river, distinguished by the necessary qualities, and do everything as before
One should position the painting to face west, with oneself facing east. Sitting on a bundle of kuśa grass, one should repeat in full the same procedure as before. One should recite the mantra at the three junctions of the day six hundred thousand times
At the end of the recitation, one should offer into the fire, prepared exactly as before, one hundred thousand blossoms of the bayur tree mixed with white sandalwood or saffron. {.
“If the painting trembles violently at the conclusion of the homa ritual, it is a sign that one will become a minister
If the painting becomes luminous with light and rays of light issue forth from it, one will obtain a kingship
If the painting is completely enveloped in a halo of light, one will obtain the kingship over the realm of the four great kings
If the painting speaks, one will obtain the position of Śakra—dominion over the realm of the Thirty-Three
If the painting delivers Dharma instructions, one will attain lordship of the [first] three bodhisattva levels
If one touches one’s head and arms with the painting, one will obtain the five superknowledges, the seventh bodhisattva level, and the ten powers. One will certainly obtain them one after the other. {.
“When one has accomplished the mantra taught by Lord Kāśyapa and achieved the goal of removing hunger and thirst
one should practice the teachings on the method for accomplishing the goal of mantra activity, strictly following the procedure and using the specified implements. Otherwise one will not succeed. {.
“In brief, one should follow the mantra practice step by step in this way, and one will certainly succeed. One will definitely obtain all the power substances, special implements, and medicines, as well as jewels and gems as previously described. {.
“A mantra reciter skilled in the art of mantra, Who is familiar with the ritual procedure, Staying in a place as described above, Should eat pure and ‘white’ foods. {.
“Having eaten, happy at heart, With his sense organs always well nourished, He should take his bowl with the remaining food And go to a river with clean water. {.
“The vow holder should throw the food in an isolated place And leave it for animals
Having given it to them, He should wash his bowl thoroughly. {.
“The bowl should be made of clay And carefully fired
After using it, one should remove from the bowl All traces of grease or meat {.
“And ensure there is no residual smell— The supreme sage said this about the bowl when it is not used
One should never eat from the bowl That one uses for doing alms rounds. {.
“One should never eat solid foods from it, Nor fruits, or liquids
One should not eat from a lotus leaf Or leaves produced by water lilies. {.
“One should avoid leaves of fragrant plants— A mantra practitioner should not use them
Nor the leaves of water lilies Or those that grow on the waved-leaf fig or cluster fig tree. {.
“Nor should one use banyan leaves, Or those from karṇa, śāka, or gulmin trees
And neither the leaves that grow on mango trees Nor leaves from the dhak tree. {.
“Nor should one use leaves from the sal tree, flea tree, Or those that grow on bodhi trees
This is because the blessed Buddha Śākyamuni Used to sit on them. {.
“One should carefully avoid these trees, And never fell them for timber
One should not pluck leaves From ironwood trees. {.
“One should never eat from any of them, As they are all avoided by the wise
Sages who dwell in huts of leaves Must never step over [such leaves]. {.
“A mantra practitioner would break his samaya Should he eat from the leaves of these trees. He should also not eat From the leaves of other trees. {.
“One can always take food from dishes As recommended, made of clay, copper, Silver, gold-based materials, And also quartz or stone. {.
“One should not eat from the backside of a leaf, Nor from the surface of the hand
Those leaves that may serve as an offering For the sons of the possessors of the ten powers, the enemies of Māra, {.} “Or those that may be offered to the rhinoceros-like pratyeka­buddhas, Or, indeed, to the śrāvaka followers Should be avoided by a mantra reciter
And never trampled underfoot. {.
“As for the different bakery items, And food and drink in general, A mantra practitioner should not appropriate Anything that has been duly offered. {.
“A reciter should always avoid What has been given to the victorious ones, To their followers, the śrāvakas, And to the Three Jewels. {.
“For those ordinary beings for whom this is even slightly the case, The mantras will accomplish nothing
What need then to speak of high qualities, Or those who desire every fortune? {.
“The mantras of those who eat food offered as bali Will not be successful, Whether in the rites of enriching or pacifying, Or having any hopes fulfilled. {.
“The mantras, on the other hand, of pure, skilled, disciplined, And tenderhearted followers of the Dharma Will be successful in every respect, If they take joy in their pure conduct. {.
“A reciter should not eat food Already given by him to anyone else
Nor should he eat the food Given by others to someone else. {.
“One should eat little, and only that Which has been given to oneself
A mantra adept who lives in this way Already has an accomplishment in his hand. {.
“The mantrin, the keeper of vows, Should receive food following this procedur
And should practice all the mantras Commended by the sages. {.
“Furthermore, I will now explain in brief The rules pertaining to rites For using all types of food, And I will also teach a mantra that purifies everything. {.
“When a reciter has done his ritual ablutions, He should always recite the following mantra
Having recited it seven times, This mantra practitioner will have purified his body. {.
“Hear it and learn its full meaning, O assembly of spirits and deities
Having rubbed his entire body, A sage should recite the following mantra. {.
“Homage to all the buddhas, the perfect teachers
“ Oṁ , you who remove all faults, destroy, destroy all those who engage in evil! Remember your samaya! Hūṁ jaḥ, svāhā! {.
“Whatever rice dishes one has obtained through alms, or any other food that one is going to eat, one should eat it after incanting it with the above mantra
Having eaten and ritually rinsed one’s mouth, one should wash the whole body as before, in the direction toward the head, and then take rest
Having rested for three quarters of an hour, or half of a half of one night-watch, one should respectfully salute the painting and recite genuine Dharma texts taught by all the buddhas. {.
“The texts to be recited are the noble Prajñāpāramitā, Candra­pradīpa­samādhi, Daśabhūmika, Suvarṇa­prabhāsottama, Mahā­māyūrī , or Ratna­ketu­dhāraṇī 
One should recite them in turns, until the sun has risen one angular cubit above the horizon
Then, when one has finished reading and bowed down to one’s ability
one should put the books aside and cover them with a clean cloth
Having bowed to this work of Dharma, one should descend to a riverbank or a big pond in order to bathe
There, one should take some clay that is free of living organisms, incant it seven times with the following mantra, and throw it into the water
What mantra? {.
“Homage to all the buddhas, the perfect teachers
“ Oṁ , paralyze all evildoers, hūṁ ! You who hold a blue lotus and possess the graceful form of a divine youth, bind them, bind! Remember your samaya! Phaṭ phaṭ, svāhā! {.
“One should use this mantra to effect protection [for oneself], bind the directions, form a protective circle for one’s companions, bind the fire pit, and summon all the wicked and utterly wicked beings
One should roam everywhere with a cord tied around one’s waist and incanted seven times
One should recite this mantra one hundred thousand times in order to destroy or appease the evil obstacle makers, reciting both during recitation sessions and the time of ritual bathing
In this way one will be able to accomplish all activities
When performing any ritual, one should put on the great fivefold seal [of Mañjuśrī]
One will be able to accomplish everything; it cannot be otherwise. {.
“The practitioner should take some powder consisting of dried clay and cow dung and do the ritual ablutions as he pleases
He should bathe in water that is free of living organisms
In all the rites, one should always use only water that is free of living organisms
Having bathed, one should smear oneself with a paste of clay and cow dung, or other fragrant unguents that are especially helpful
One must not release into the water any phlegm, urine, or feces
One should not splash in the water or engage in play
One should compassionately reflect on oneself and other
and on the absence of self, emptiness, and the pain of experiencing pervasive suffering, which is like the pain experienced by someone separated from their mother
A mantra adept should thus imagine himself to be a being without a practice to follow, one subject to ruin, fall, decay, and destruction, all of which are attended by suffering
He should think of himself as sinking deep into the ocean of saṃsāra, without a place to rest, protection, or refuge, and miserable
He should thus meditate, focusing his mind one-pointedly, while standing right there surrounded by water, submerged up to his neck or his waist. {.
“First one should visualize a huge lotus stalk supporting a big lotus flower
It is adorned with big petals and made of beautiful-looking jewels
Its pericarp is of beryl, its petals of emerald, and its stamens of crystal. It has one thousand petals and is in full bloom
It is adorned with flowers made of crystal and ruby. On this lotus there is a lotus throne made of precious stone, adorned with many gems
and shaded by a pair of cloth canopies. On the throne, one should visualize Lord Buddha expounding the Dharma
He is of pure golden color, surrounded by bright light, and adorned with a halo one fathom wide
He is large in size, appearing as if painted in the sky
and sitting in a cross-legged posture. {.} “To his right, on a lotus seat, one should visualize Noble Mañjuśrī, adorned with all the superb ornaments
He is not sitting but standing, and holding, in his extended hand, a yak-tail whisk to fan the Blessed One
He is of light red hue or the color of ground saffron
To the left of the Blessed One, there is the noble Avalokiteśvara, the color of a full autumn moon, with a yak-tail whisk in his hand. Similarly, the eight bodhisattvas —the noble Maitreya, Samantabhadra, Kṣitigarbha, Gaganagañja, Sarva­nīvaraṇa­viṣkambhin, Apāyajaha, the noble Vajrapāṇi, and Sudhana—should be visualized
These are the ten bodhisattvas. {.} “To the right, one should visualize the eight pratyeka­buddhas—Candana, Gandhamādana , Ketu, Suketu, Sitaketu, Riṣṭa, Upāriṣṭa, and Nemi
In the same place there are also the eight great śrāvakas—the noble Mahā­maudgalyāyana, Śāriputra, Gavāmpati, Piṇḍola­bhara­dvāja, Pilindavatsa, the noble Rāhula, Mahākāśyapa, and the noble Ānanda. {.
“Next to these eight great śrāvakas, one should visualize an infinite assembly of monks
next to the pratyeka­buddhas, an infinite numbers of other pratyeka­buddhas
and in the eight places of the eight great bodhisattvas, infinite assemblies of other bodhisattvas
In this auspicious way should one visualize the canopy of the sky filled with this great assembly. {.
“Still standing in water reaching up to one’s navel, one should perform a big pūjā, offering flowers of many types, earthly and celestial, including māndarava and great māndarava, lotuses and great lotuses, or, according to season, blue lotuses —different flowers of great size, baskets with flowers, and flowers piled as high as a mountain
Also, one should perform a pūjā, pleasing to the mind, for all the śrāvakas, pratyeka­buddhas, and bodhisattvas, offering fragrant powders, parasols, flags, and banners—both earthly and celestial, in great numbers—including thousands of millions of billions of bright lamps
One should offer, in the same manner, requisites and articles used for a bali offering, such as incense and food. {.
“One should then visualize oneself and everything illumined by the light issuing forth from the tuft of hair between Lord Śākyamuni’s eyebrows
Immediately entering samādhi while reciting the mantra, one will obtain fruits of the accumulated great merit and will certainly become destined for awakening. {.
“This and similar meditations Were taught by the best of me
For the sake of all beings’ welfare And for the benefit of mantra practitioners. {.
“The supreme seventh sage Taught at that time the most important meditation, For the benefit of all mantra practitioners And for all sentient beings. {.
“He taught the features and appearance Of the first, the second, And the third maṇḍalas, And after that, he taught the mantra. {.
“The best of men declared that With the first type of painting, the accomplishment will be supreme; With the second, it will be inferior to that; And with the smallest, the accomplishment will be very small. {.
“Just as with the form of the painting, so too Can the meditation be supreme, medium, or smallest
In short, though, this meditation Will remove all of one’s faults. {.
“There is nothing else to rely on Than the mode of meditation the wise one uses
His mantras will be successful, And he will be stable in his meditation. {.
“When the reciter has finished his chosen meditation That has been taught according to its procedure, He should request the mantra deity to depart, Using whatever offering he finds pleasing. {.
“He should then come out of the water stream And go, as he pleases
To a place as described before, Applying self-control according to rules. {.
“A mantra practitioner should recite the mantra As prescribed for the previous rite
He should then request the mantra deity, And whatever deities had been summoned, to depart. {.
“Next, the skilled practitioner should perform The protection rite for himself and his friends
While knowing the true nature of the ritual And taking pleasure in following its procedure. {.
“One should praise the best of beings By offering various eulogies
And thus supplicating one’s mantra deity, the lord of mantras, The śrāvakas, the rhinoceros-like pratyeka­buddhas, {.
“And the bodhisattvas, these great beings Who are forbearingly kind toward the three realms
A mantra reciter should then Get up from his seat once again {.
“And, having gone some distance from his dwelling, Should expel his breath completely, Discharge mucous and spittle, And void his bladder. {.
“During the daytime one should face north, And at nighttime, south
A mantra reciter should never Wish for material benefits. {.
“He should not recite, for this purpose, the mantra, Nor should he talk about his family and its activities
A practitioner of impeccable conduct, Adorned with auspicious marks, should sit on the ground. {.
“He should perform ablutions in pure water That reaches up to the hem of his robe
And thoroughly wash his feet, Wiping them seven times with clay. {.
“After urinating, he should use seven handfuls, After passing stool, use thirty handfuls, And clean his hands afterward
When clearing phlegm or snot, He should take two handfuls of clay. {.
“One should perform one’s toilet carefully, In a place far from one’s dwelling. One should go to where no sound is heard, And where all paths disappear. {.
“There, at one’s pleasure, Outside the southern boundary
In a pit submerged in saline water And covered over with sand, {.} “But not on a riverbank— One should avoid polluting them with feces
In a covered and secret place where one feels at ease, In a wilderness devoid of people, {.
“Can a mantra practitioner go to the toilet To void his body of impurities
A mantra reciter should know the right time And not hold in feces for too long. {.
“One should therefore go, whenever one feels like it, To a clean and deserted spot as prescribed And build there a toilet-cabin The way one wants. {.
“One should always relieve oneself In silence, without any company, In a secret and hidden hut, Or a place concealed by the terrain. {.
“When urine and stool have been evacuated, A vow holder should always clean himself Using soft and well-kneaded clay, Free of living organisms. {.
“One should divide the clay into three lumps and always use one To clean one’s anus and the remaining two to clean each hand
A mantra practitioner should always collect the clay From the ground as described before {.
“And thoroughly wash his feet, First the right, then the left
A mantra reciter should ensure That the feet do not touch each other. {.
“The personal hygiene of mantra reciters Has been taught at length before
The pure beings have formerly taught The purificatory toilet involving perfume and unguents
This purification procedure will now be summarized For the sake of those who follow the rules of mantra. {.
“The lord of sages has said That one should always stay pure Through a toilet involving perfume and unguents, As has been indicated in this entire tantra. {.
“One should perform ablutions while reciting the mantra, Delighting, like a devotee, in the rites that are successful
Following the method as previously taught, With one’s mind inwardly pure. {.
“In all the tantras the purity Of mantra practitioners is taught to be fivefold
Purity of the body, purity of speech, And purity of mind are taught as three
Fourth is the purity of truth, And fifth is the purity of water. {.
“One needs to abide by the law of truth, control one’s anger, Understand the teachings of the tantras, know the śāstras
Be proficient in understanding the significance of the subtle nature, Understand the mantras, and know the rituals. {.
“For those with both inner and outer skills, Accomplishment will not be difficult to find
One should not utter false and disrespectful words That are devoid of the quality of truth
{.} “Words that are cruel, cruel in the extreme, Or devoid of any truth; Words that sow mutual hatred and anger; Harsh words that attack someone’s weaknesses
{.} “Words devoid of truth or justice That hurt other beings; Or slanderous words born out of an afflicted mind That have no virtue in them at all. {.
“So, too, one should always avoid intrinsically harmful words That spring from wrong morality and do not accord with the Dharma
A mantra reciter should likewise always avoid The vulgar pursuits of common people. {.
“All the buddhas, bodhisattvas, And other wise beings condemn The misguided ire of Those who fear the next world. {.
“Certainly, too, the rhinoceros-like pratyeka­buddhas And the śrāvakas, time and again, Condemn false speech for those people Who desire accomplishment in this world. {.
“One who speaks false words Will go to a most terrible hell
Then to the animal realm, And after that to Yama’s world of hungry ghosts. {.
“One who makes one’s living by telling lies Will have to stay there continually. Such a feeble-minded being will go to the terrible Kālasūtra or Pratāpana hell, {.
“Or Sañjīva, Asipattra, Or perhaps Śālmalīvana, Where a person who speaks untruth Will remain for many eons. {.
“How could the mantras of a liar Ever bring accomplishment? One who deceives beings with false words Only brings them distress
One whose actions are so deluded Is therefore not going to see mantra accomplishment. {.
“There will be no accomplishment for the followers of mantra Who utter words in the manner just described
“One who rejects, on this earth, The teaching of the buddha
Will fall into the terrible And very frightening Avīci hell. {.
“In the Sañjīva, Kālasūtra, Or Pratāpana hell One will remain for one great eon, If one shuns these genuine instructions of mine. {.
“Foolish people will be cooked In a frighteningly dark hell
If, blind and veiled by darkness, They disdain the genuine teachings. {.
“Because of their ignorance and childish nature, They are deluded by their false pride. Slighting the vidyārāja, They will fall into a terrible hell. {.
“One should therefore refrain from committing evil, Or any contemptible falsehood
Genuine Dharma must not be despised, And wrong views must be rejected. {.
“Consequently, one should always have faith And always follow the mantra procedure
One who knows the mantra should speak the truth, Always for the good of sentient beings
If such a one resorts to the mantra, He will certainly obtain accomplishment. {.
“The (ritual) performance makes for the (ritual) activity; Such activity would not happen without the performance. One thus performs various activities (and creates various karmas) Of the sublime, medium, and lower types
One who thus engages in ritual activity Will always obtain accomplishment. {.
“In terms of purpose, the only purpose of ritual performance Is always for the sake of aim-oriented activity
Ritual performance without a motive is a kriyā (mere performance), Whereas ritual performance with a motive is a karman (retributive activity)
As activity that relies on ritual bears results, One should always perform rituals. {.
“First the required procedure, then the activity, and then the result— This is always the order in which these three occur
That which bears no result (that is, the procedure on its own) becomes that which Produces the result (the activity), thus always ending with the result. {.
“With results or without them— These are the only possible outcomes
A mantra is accomplished through union
This union is what brings the accomplishment of mantra
The absence of union is separation, And separation, unlike union, is not effective. {.
“Accomplishment—the accomplishing of what is to be accomplished— Will not be won in that case
The power substances—the causes of accomplishment— Will be blocked in every respect. {.
“For those, however, who have accomplished their mantra, Even the mantras they have not previously accomplished bring results
The activity primarily intended by the performer Is the result of the procedure enacted for the purpose of this activity. {.
“In all activities one should not perform that which is ineffectual. Since the [effective] activity has its causes
Which are the mantra, the tantra, and the intention, One should always commence an activity employing [these causes]. {.
“One should perform activities that are viable ( ārabhya )
One should not undertake activities that are ineffectual
Mantras that are not part of a ritual performance Will not bring accomplishment to anyone. {.
“The samaya, formerly taught by the supreme sages— The teachers of the true Dharma— Has been explained by the victorious ones In the teachings of the Mantra Vehicle. {.
“The practitioner who knows the complete doctrine of the mantra Has been shown, in this matchless king of manuals, The path that results in awakening— The path whose nature ( rūpa ) is mantra. {.
“All mantras for which the lineage connection Is always present will be successful
One will accomplish[, in such a case,] what one desires Within a short period of time. {.
“For the sake of pacifying every being, The perfect buddhas taught The path that consists of mantra, Which leads to the city of nirvāṇa. {.
“Thus, the path to awakening Always fulfills the purpose of all activities
Buddhahood is its place of origin And its ultimate and final aim. {.
“If effected through mantra recitation, This path will be accomplished without effort, And its results will be obtained Along with the knowledge of various karmic predispositions. {.
“In brief, this attainment will come To those with discipline, meditation, and [the three] liberations
And it will fulfill for them all aims— This has been taught by the chief among the victors. {.
“One will obtain an increase in riches, Reside in the ultimate realm
Or be the leader, in any event, of the yakṣa s And the sovereign of gods and men. {.
“One who [knows] all mantras Will obtain supremacy Over men , gods, and asuras, And will make his rites bear fruit. {.
“One should always practice pure conduct And take joy in discipline and meditation
A mantra practitioner should recite the mantra That has been taught in all the tantras. {.
“The mantra practitioner may perform the various types of rites, Such as those of the highest or middling type
If, however, he desires riches, He should perform those of the lowest type. {.
“The lowest rites will bring an increase of pleasures
The middling will bring a superior body
The reciter will, however, attain the highest state Only through the supreme rites. {.
“At the end of recitation, the practitioner should rest, For as long as necessary
He should do his formal practice When the time for it has arrived. {.
“Even though all his rites have succeeded, the mantra practitioner Should keep reciting in order to exhaust all the evil of human beings
What is normally done through successive rites, He can accomplish through a single rite performed according to procedure. {.} “His accomplishment will become stable When he has acquired all that is possible for human beings to acquire
Such a mantra reciter should nevertheless continue to recite the mantra In order to exhaust evil, and then, to remove the karma of beings. {.
“May the mantras revered by the world That are supreme, middling, or inferior be successful
When recited they will exhaust all karma That has been accumulated throughout the succession of births. {.} “The evil of all the embodied beings will then be destroyed
One will obtain various body ornaments, Pleasing to the mind and possessed of all good qualities. One will obtain a place in the Yakṣa, with the permanent position of a king. Those who recite the mantra of the tathāgatas Will obtain every accomplishment.” {.
This concludes the eleventh chapter of “The Root Manual of Noble Mañjuśrī,” an extensive Mahāyāna sūtra that forms a garland-like basket of bodhisattva teachings. This chapter constitutes the detailed fourth chapter on places suitable for the performance of the ritual; on mantra recitation, ritual observances, homa, meditation, purificatory rites, and conduct; and the performance of all the rites according to procedure
Now Lord Śākyamuni again looked at the entire Pure Abode, and said this to Mañjuśrī, the divine youth
“Listen, Mañjuśrī, to [the instructions] for the followers of your vidyā mantra who strive to benefit all beings
what mantras they should be made to recite, by whom these mantras are to be recited
and the attendant rosary rites that are methods for accomplishing all the common mantras of all tantras. Listen carefully and reflect on this well
I will teach this [now].” {.
At these words, Mañjuśrī, the divine youth, said this to the Blessed One
“Good! May the Blessed One show us the favor of teaching this for the sake of all those who entered the samaya of mantra practice, as well as every other being.” {.
After Mañjuśrī, the divine youth, spoke thus, the Blessed One said this to him
“Listen, Mañjuśrī, as I will teach at length and in detail how beings can accomplish all their aims by applying all the mantra conduct. And how [do they do this]
First there is [the following] mantra
Homage to all the buddhas whose forms are marvelous and inconceivable
“ Oṁ , act, act! Accomplish all aims, accomplish! O (female) sky dweller who dumbfounds all the wicked ones, effect the purification! Svāhā! {.
“One should employ this mantra in the rites of crafting all types of rosaries
those that involve cleaning, drilling, threading, separating, and so forth. {.
“First, when making a rosary, One should incant the tree Thirty-seven times
A vow holder should then perform the protection rite. {.
“One should then sleep one nigh
And in one’s sleep one will see A nonhuman being, either beautiful Or ugly, and baring its teeth
This friendly being will say, ‘Bring me, as is proper, something of value.’ {.
“The practitioner should then rise early And go to the tree that has been indicated
Unless one saw in one’s dream A tree that is huge and misshapen. {.} “One should avoid trees of this kind And go instead to another tree
A rudrākṣa tree is the best
The next best is an arjuna tree, {.
“A lucky bean tree
or another good tree That bears fruit suitable for beads
One should climb it together with companions Who are good at climbing trees. {.
“If such a mantra reciter has no companions, He should climb by himself
A lay vow holder should climb to the fruit Located on the uppermost branches. {.
“Never distracted from his task, He should pick fruits that issue from upper branches
Having thus obtained fruits from these branches, He should use them in superior rites. {.
“For it has been taught by the best of men That when a rite is superior, the accomplishment will be superior too
When it is middling, the accomplishment will be middling
And when it is minor, the accomplishment will be minor. {.
“If one takes fruit from them, One will never be disliked by sentient beings
If one takes seeds from the western branches, One’s mantras will be effective in the preparation of power substances. {.
“If the seeds are from the northern branches, One will always be able to summon yakṣa deities or those of similar stock
It is said that they should be summoned For the pacification of all beings. {.
“The gods, asuras, gandharvas, Kinnaras, and rākṣasas, on the other hand, Can be summoned in a properly performed rite In order to provide nourishment to all beings. {.
“One will make all the rites That are done on earth bear fruit
If the seeds originate from a branch That is in the eastern quarter, {.
“One should always employ them zealously As causes for bringing long life
Thus, one will always obtain a different mantra-accomplishment Depending on the type of seeds. {.
“If a branch extends in the southern direction And abounds in leaves, A mantra reciter should carefully avoid it
For the seeds from it will drain the vital force from living beings. {.
“If one recites using the seeds That are growing On branches extending south, One will destroy the life force of one’s enemies. {.
“One should carefully avoid such acts, though, For they are the cause of a great deal of negativity
Seeds that are described as hanging Underneath the lower branches {.} “Will enable one to reach Rasātala, The place where dānava women live, If one takes along a rosary made of them
So have these seeds been described. {.} “Seeds that cling to the lower branches Will enable one to reach Pātāla
Once he has entered there, Divine pleasures await a mantra reciter. {.
“He will remain united with asura women And stay there for an eon
A reciter will be able to descend there If he takes with him a complete set of such seeds. {.
“One should perform a protection rite And travel, with companions, to a place of one’s choice
Having thus traveled to a distant place, Which always must be clean, {.
“A mantra practitioner should stay there
He should purify the set of seeds, Taking each of the seed-bead
And cleaning it thoroughly all over. {.} “Having cleaned them completely, The mantra adept should drill holes in them
Repeating the mantra three, seven, eight, One, or twenty-one times, {.
“One who knows the nature of mantra should purify the beads
Always using the same mantra as before, Repeated either seven or eight times, The purification will be ensured. {.
“Such a lay vow holder should prepare twine Using thread spun by a virgi
Joined with five threefold strains Of fibers from a lotus stalk. {.
“One who knows the nature of mantra should string upon it Seeds that are fine, well rounded, Never damaged by worms
And without protrusions or other imperfections. {.
“They must be beautiful and of nice color, Without holes or cracks
And may be either from the rudrākṣa tree, Lucky bean tree, or arjuna tree. {.} “Applying himself to the task with care, A mantra practitioner should string a rosary of beads That is ever unspoiled, beautiful, Not deformed, and composed of identical beads. {.
“Alternatively, the beads Could be made of gold, silver, Rubies, crystal, Conch, musāragalva coral, or pearl. {.
“One can make different types of rosaries, Using coral or other precious substances, To create a divine rosary, Beautiful and auspicious. {.
“With a focused mind, one should string onto the thread Round beads made of earth, Or any other beads that are more or less round, Be they seeds or mineral in origin. {.
“Reciting the mantra with earnestness, One should string the beads using a sharp-pointed blade of grass
Either one hundred and eight of them, or twenty-five, Or the medium number of fifty. {.
“A rosary of this size should be strung By a well-focused mantra practitioner
The supreme kind of rosary Would consist of one thousand and eight beads. {.
“It is always a rosary of one of these four types That may be strung by the practitioners of mantra
When subsequently tying the knot, One should do it thrice, or at least twice. {.
“To keep the rosary tight ( mālāsamāsataḥ ), One should fasten [the knot] With rings made of flower-metal, gold, Silver, or copper. {.
“Finally, one should make a plaiting loop, Adding them in succession to form a plait
One should wrap the plait firmly and with care, So that it stays tight. {.
“One should fashion it well To make it resemble a maṇḍal
With the shape of a snake’s hood Adorned by the wrapping. {.
“The rosary may have the form of a string of pearls, Fashioned as a neck ornament
One should wash it in pure water, Such as that of a clean river. {.
“Having washed it as described before
One should take it out of the water And perform the ablutions thoroughly oneself 
Holding it as one does a string of beads. {.} “One should wipe it with the five products of the co
And, likewise, with powdered clay
One should then rinse it with clean water And smear it with fragrant unguents, {.
“Including those of auspicious colors, Such as white sandalwood and saffron
Having thus anointed it with care, One should go to one’s hut. {.
“One should walk up to the place Where the painting of the medium type is
With the supreme among the victorious ones, the chief sage, The best of men, the Lion of the Śākyas, painted in its center. {.
“One should always place the rosary Before the image of the Teacher that contains relics Of the victorious upon the earth; It should be placed close by. {.
“One should thus place the rosary on the canvas Before and near to the image of Śākyamun
And incant it  times , Plus an additional  times. {.
“Having fasted the whole day and night, One should offer the rosary to the best of sages
One can also do the recitation as before, Identical in terms of numbers. {.
“Then, having incanted the rosary, One should leave it there for the night
A knower of mantras should sleep in the same place, On a bed of kuśa grass spread on the ground. {.
“Should he behold in his sleep Beautiful dream images, They indicate the results In which he will obtain accomplishment. {.
“If a practitioner of mantra should see in his dream Buddhas, śrāvakas, or pratyeka­buddhas, His ritual actions will definitely succeed, Bearing results for him. {.
“If he beholds in his sleep A wonderful, beautiful-looking boy In the form of the divine youth, He should offer the rosary to him
His mantras will succeed without fail, Accomplishing all his aims.” {.
This concludes the detailed twelfth chapter in “The Root Manual of Noble Mañjuśrī,” an extensive Mahāyāna sūtra that forms a garland-like basket of bodhisattva teachings. This chapter belongs to the detailed section on the procedure of the “medium” painting, and also constitutes the detailed chapter on the procedure of the rosary
Now Lord Śākyamuni again looked at the realm of the Pure Abode, and said this to Mañjuśrī, the divine youth
“There is, O Mañjuśrī, a ritual sequence for a special worship of [the god of] fire, which is meant for those practitioners of vidyā who engage in the rite of homa according to the special procedure that has been succinctly explained in the chapter on mantras in your manual
Once established in this routine, beings become actively engage in the conduct of all vidyā s
What is this sequence
The mantric words of the secret vidyā spell are as follows: {.
“ Oṁ , rise up, O tawny [flame] with red eyes! Give and cause to give! Hūṁ, phaṭ phaṭ! Destroy all the obstacles, svāhā
“This, O Mañjuśrī, is the supreme heart [mantra] of [the god of] fire that accomplishes all activities and fulfills all wishes. {.
“At the beginning, the practitioner should offer into the fire three oblations of ghee
incanted each time with this heart mantra of fire
For someone engaged in this way in the performance of the pacifying, nourishing, or wrathful activities, there are prescribed three types of firewood, respectively. {.
“The sticks from the aśoka tree are for the activity of pacifying, Especially if they are moist with sap
The best ones are nine inches, a cubit, Or perhaps three fingers long. {.
“The ritual instructions specify That viscid sticks are the best
They should be without holes nor be hollow
With the hue of a parrot’s plumage. {.
“One should avoid yellow, White, or black colors
One should collect sticks without holes, Rejecting also those damaged by worms. {.
“Sticks of other colors are not recommended
One should avoid only sticks of the worst kind
They should be not too dry and not too moist
Nor should one use scorched sticks. {.
“One should also avoid those that are Rotten, crooked, or too long
One should then prepare a fire pit, Rectangular on all sides. {.
“One should carefully dig a pit To the depth of four cubits
Or, alternatively, three cubits, two cubits, Or even one cubit. {.
“The pit should be free of living organisms And made of sand
One should then prepare a lotus-shaped altar Encircling the pit all around. {.
“Or, one can carefully make An enclosure in the shape of a square
With corners in the shape of vajras, Both ends of which are three-pronged. {.
“Inside this fire pit one should prepare A flat, two-cubit area
One who is well prepared should perform the homa In a pure, cleanly swept place, {.
“On a well-chosen riverbank, Or in a lonely spot on dry land
A charnel ground, an empty dwelling, Or on a mountaintop. {.
“Also, one can always do this in an empty temple Or a big forest
Places that have been recommended by the most eminent of men As suitable for successful practice {.
“Have also been described as suitable in every respect For the performance of the homa rite
One who knows the mantra, Having sat on a bundle of kuśa grass {.
“One cubit in size, Should perform the homa rite in a particular way
If one remains in such places, Accomplishment will be swift, have no doubt. {.
“For the activities of pacifying and enriching One should sit facing east or north
Violent activities, however, associated with the south, The mantra practitioner should avoid. {.
“When one faces east, the accomplishment will be of a peaceful kind
When it is the north, it will be of an enriching kind
One should always begin the mantra recitation Facing these directions. {.
“One should perform rites of enriching Using sticks of the bilva, mango, waved-leaf fig, or banyan tree
Sticks used for violent rites Should be dry, pungent, sour, or bitter. {.} “All these that are meant for violent rites should be avoided, As they have been prohibited by the sages
In the rites of pacifying and enriching Sticks moist with sap are said to be the best. {.
“Dry sticks, used in violent rites, Should be avoided, according to the sages
They can, however, be used If the right type is not available. {.
“Around the fire pit one should spread An array of kuśa grass blades that are pointed at both ends
Using blades that have a glossy, yellow-green color, Like a peacock’s neck. {.
“One should always use blades of this kind In rites of pacifying and enriching
And dried blades of other grasses Of an emerald color {.
“In rites of evil activity; As for these, though, they are forbidden by the best of victors
One should take pure and clean water, Which always must be free of worms, {.
“And circumambulate the fire pit clockwise, Sprinkling it all around
One should then light the fire, wholly absorbed in this task, Having performed the ablutions according to procedure. {.
“With clean roots of grass, One should prepare a torch of the right size
Then take it in hand And carefully kindle the fire. {.
“One should not blow at the kindling with one’s mouth, Nor fan the fire with the edge of one’s garment, Such as the undergarment or the upper garment, But there is no restriction on other clothes. {.
“Nor should one fan the fire with one’s hand, Or risk putting it out by being overzealous
One should fan it with a pure frond of a palm, Or perhaps a clean cloth or leaf. {.
“When the fire has been kindled, Fanned with the wind generated as described
The knower of mantra should let it blaze And be well focused on the homa. {.
“One should then sprinkle it three times, Using one’s left hand
Then one should offer three oblations, Using for this purpose clarified cow’s butter. {.
“One should then bow to All the buddhas, the protectors, And salute also, as seems fit, The mantra lord of one’s personal mantra. {.
“Then, wholly dedicated to the task, One should invite the god of fire using fragrant flowers, Always incanted seven times With the heart mantra of fire. {.
“A wise practitioner, a knower of the mantra, Should summon him and offer him a place
One should offer him a seat With the same heart mantra and no other. {.
“In order to worship the god of fire One should offer three oblations of firewood sticks Covered in curds with ghee and smeared with honey, Performing the rite complete with the mantra. {.
“One should, at that time, Smear both ends of the sticks with these substances, Applying ghee and honey, And mixing it with curds. {.
“One can perform this , ,, or  times
If one is a practitioner of a secret mantra, One should pronounce it once for each oblation cast into the fire. {.
“When performing peaceful rites, The fire should form a circle, Or a single tongue of flame
For the rites of enrichment, it should be smokeless. {.
“The fire should be smoky for rites of the violent type, Described by the victorious ones as forbidden
If the fire has a color, Its color is associated with a respective oblatory activity. {.
“If this activity is peaceful, a fire that is white in color Has always been praised by the victorious ones as the best
If one offers into a white fire, The [peaceful] mantras will be successful. {.
“The color red will always guarantee Accomplishment in the rites of enrichment
If the fire is black and the smoke is brown, Violent rites will be successful. {.
“There are thus three types of accomplishment Associated with the three colors
The fire may also have another color, such as the color of a cloud, And may appear in different forms. {.
“When the fire is like this, The mantras cannot possibly succeed
When seeing the fire blazing With this color {.} “Or with various [other undesirable] colors and forms, One should begin the rite once again
If one desires the mantra to succeed, One must perform the recitation again, {.
“And do the homa rite once again Following the established ritual procedure
To invoke or dismiss the deity, One should pronounce the mantra of fire {.
“Within the circle prepared beforehand, Following the right procedure
Employing this mantra, one should perform the homa Complete with the rites of invoking and dismissing the deity. {.
“Based on this particular rite, One can accomplish any rite
One should commence such fire observances In front of the painting. {.
“One’s mantras will then be successful, As formerly declared by the tathāgatas
One should not perform just any activities, however, But only those praised by the victorious ones. {.
“Thus, one should not perform other activities, Especially the evil ones Censured by the victorious ones And forbidden and reviled by the world. {.
“One will become either a universal emperor, Or a bodhisattva protecting the earth
One will attain the five superknowledges, Or the state of a god. {.
“One who always applies the appropriate knowledge of the painting And is confident about the rite of the hom
Will become the master of subterranean paradises And also be able to travel in the sky. {.
“One will be able to change into an earth god or a yakṣa Who always attracts yakṣa maidens
One may become the ruler of a kingdom, Or a district, or perhaps the head of a village. {.
“One may at will become a vidyādhara or an asura With the power to enthrall all beings
One will be able to summon the spirits, As well as the great and noble beings. {.
“By means of this rite of homa, One will be able to summon the bodhisattvas, The great beings who abide on any of the ten levels, Not to mention ordinary humans on this earth. {.
“One may become a general of an army, Or someone of exceptionally great might in this world
One may control all the spirits And, likewise, become a lord of men. {.
“Whether it is for the sake of enthralling all beings, Or becoming the king of men on earth
One should always include, with every activity, A complete rite of homa. {.
“One should practice all the activities With complete dedication and in full
The supreme activity will then be successful And will serve the highest purpose. {.
“So too will the activities of the medium And the lowest type be successful
And one will also obtain all the relevant power substances. Again, as has been said, the accomplishment can be of three types. {.
“When the rite of homa is performed, One’s accomplishment will be rich in results
One should form the five-crested mudrā And say the mantra of Keśinī. {.
“One should perform all activities, Having first performed the rite of self-protection
When engaging in the rite of homa, One should recite the following mantra
This mantra should always be repeated, In this rite, seven or eight times. {.
“Homage to all the buddhas and bodhisattvas, the perfect teachers
“ Oṁ , burn! Remain, hūṁ! Ru ru , you from whom all things arise! You who are the origin, svāhā! {.
“Using this mantra method, One should thoroughly recite again and again
A mantra adept, having thus recited twice or seven times, Should offer oblations into the fire. {.
“Using water incanted with this mantra, One should sprinkle Flowers, incense, perfume, And everything all around. {.
“One should then commence all activities According to procedure
In all one’s activities one should apply The previously described method. {.
“Having formed the great mudrā— The famed five-crested — One should do the protection rite And then continually recite the mantra of Keśinī. {.
“One should embark on all activities Confident about the causes of accomplishment
If favorable signs are seen And beautiful sounds continuously heard, {.
“One’s mantras will certainly produce results By fulfilling the wished-for boons
When first applying the activities And engaging with mantra—the cause— {.
“The accomplishment of such activities Will be complete and rich in results
The cries of ‘Victory!’ will be heard, Along with the sounds of large and small kettledrums. {.
“Accomplishment is always said to follow, If one relies on the rite of homa
Other favorable signs may also be seen Or the beautiful sounds of birds heard. {.
“Various kinds of sounds may be heard, Whose meanings have been described by the victorious ones
Many kinds of exquisite sounds, Divine, auspicious, and pleasing to the mind. {.
“Parasols, banners, and flags may be seen, Along with women bedecked in jewelry, And likewise vases full of offerings— Seeing them is a sign of accomplishment. {.
“They are all of many forms and colors, Praised and venerated by the world
When they are perceived, The mantras, with their different applications, will be successful. {.
This concludes the detailed thirteenth chapter in “The Root Manual of Noble Mañjuśrī,” an extensive Mahāyāna sūtra that forms a garland-like basket of bodhisattva teachings
Then Lord Śākyamuni again directed his gaze at the realm of the Pure Abode and said this to Mañjuśrī, the divine youth
“There is, O Mañjuśrī, a secret vidyā mantra of yours that accomplishes all mantras
It was granted by the tathāgatas, arose from the treasury of their teachings, belongs to the ‘Cloud of Dharma,
and is of the essence of the sky. This vidyā is the supreme lord of all mundane and supramundane mantras, just like the divine youth is the lord of all beings
This lord is described as a tathāgata, the supreme and the most excellent
Just as Lord Buddha, O divine youth, is the most eminent person among gods and men , so he—this supreme vidyārāja —is among all the mantras
He has been formerly taught by the blessed buddhas who are equal in number to the grains of sand in the river Gaṅgā and whose merits are ineffable
He has been regarded by them as the supremely secret heart mantra of the tathāgata Ratnaketu , auspicious in every respect
He is praised and extolled by all the buddhas, is the relief of all beings, and is the destroyer of every evil. He grants every wish and fulfills every hope. So what is this mantra?” {.
While he spoke, a ray of light called arouser of all the buddhas emerged from the tuft of hair between the eyebrows of the blessed Śākyamuni
It illuminated all the buddhafields in the ten directions, above, below, and everywhere
delighting the minds of all beings
It then disappeared into Blessed Śākyamuni’s uṣṇīṣa 
Subsequently, there emerged from the same uṣṇīṣa the lord of vidyā s named One Syllable, as a form ablaze all around with the light that all ordinary beings find impossible to look at, or to lay hold of
Out of this great effulgence emerged his body, consisting of a halo of light, displaying multiple aspects and the great form of a cakravartin. {.
Having emerged, he illuminated the entire sky
He had a retinue of all the vidyā king s and was attended on and worshiped by many hundreds of thousands of millions of vidyā s
the One Syllable that is taught and cherished by all the tathāgatas intimately connected with Lord Ratnaketu —Śālendra­rāja, Amitābha, Duḥprasaha, Sunetra, Suketu, Puṣpendra, and the sage Supināntaloka—and also by the [three] tathāgatas starting with Kanaka; the One Syllable that is taught and celebrated by all the perfectly awakened ones who have gone beyond. What is this One Syllable? {.
It is bhrūṁ
“This, Mañjuśrī, is the supreme essence of all the tathāgatas. This is the great means of purification, One Syllable by name, the vidyādhara-cakravartin. When used along with him, all mantras will be successful
He is, O divine youth, recommended as the secret, supreme mantra that accords with all the mantras in your excellent king of manuals
He is the purifier of obscurations in all rites. A practitioner must first utter this mantra three hundred thousand times
and then, O divine youth, the rites for all the mantras and all the worldly and transcendent mantra methods in your king of manuals will be accomplished
When protected by One Syllable, one becomes invulnerable to attacks by any being
One will also not succumb to any obstacles, whether mundane or supramundane.” {.
As soon as the One Syllable was pronounced by Lord Śākyamuni, all the world spheres of the great trichiliocosm shook in six different ways
All the buddhafields became filled with light and all the blessed buddhas dwelling there joined the circle of the great assembly gathered in the realm of the Pure Abode
So, too, all the bodhisattvas on the tenth level of realization who were irreversibly established in perfect awakening, all the śrāvakas and pratyeka­buddhas, all the beings possessed of great powers, roused by the light from One Syllable, the vidyārāja , arrived enthralled in the assembly
And other beings living in infinite worldly realms who followed the painful destinies of hell, the hungry ghosts, and animals, were touched by the radiance of the great light. When thus illuminated, those who were acutely suffering, immersed in their painful experience, became cheered in their minds
They entered definitively into the three vehicles. {.
Then Lord Śākyamuni looked again at this great circle of the assembly and said this to Mañjuśrī, the divine youth
“Listen, Mañjuśrī, as I tell about this vidyārāja ! He possesses great magical power. As a maṇḍala deity, he is depicted without a retinue. He is suitable for all types of activity
He is the supreme monarch of all vidyā s and fulfills the hopes of all beings. For all the profusion of rites, he is present in the large body of rites of the mantra system associated with you
He accomplishes all mantras and is universally applicable
He is renowned as a great lord who is very energetic and is particularly skilled in the method and wisdom that benefit beings who practice. He clears up the entire path to awakening and establishes beings in nirvāṇa
He causes one to ascend to the seat of awakening, and he [facilitates] the accumulation of virtue. {.
“It is his extensive ritual that I will now briefly teach, including the procedure of making his painting and his maṇḍala and how it is the means of accomplishment, and also how to practice the previously mentioned mantra conduct, established in which sentient beings will succeed in the practice of this great cakravartin
the marvelous vidyārāja , the supreme lord of all mantras, the illuminator, the fulfiller of all wishes, the guide, the benefactor of the whole world, who, like the Buddha, appears directly, is self-arisen, and may be employed in all activities—the highest, the medium, and the minor. {.} “He is blissful, auspicious, Tranquil, and destroys all evil
He is the god of the gods And the most eminent among sages. {.
“He is a buddha, a sun, and a kinsman, Completely pure and renowned in the world
He knows the nature of all dharmas, Belongs to the peak of existence, and is not sullied. {.
“I will now teach his best ritual, So please listen, if you desire prosperity
To start, one should prepare a high-quality canvas, Free of hair or any adhering dirt, {.} “New, especially white, and with a fringe
On it, one should paint as described below. The canvas should be two cubits in height And one cubit across. {.
“It should be as described—bright, Spotless, pleasant in appearance, Of pure white color, Well washed, and free of rough patches. {.
“One can use a white and dust-free Cloth of dukūla bark, Flaxen cloth, or cloth of any bark, Pure and free of fibers. {.
“It should not be produced by worms, Or received from people as a gift
Thus it should not be silken, But any other kind described as suitable. {.
“On such a superior cloth One should draw the palace
One should draw the likeness of the Teacher Garlanded by a circle of light. {.
“He should be painted a golden color, Haloed by light, sage-like
Alone, sheltered inside a cave On a mountain, in all his splendor. {.
“One should draw a silken canopy Strung with garlands of jewels
Behind it are two gods Who are supporting it. {.
“Above the mountain One should draw a jewel garlan
And, around the canopy, Decorations made of strings of pearls. {.
“Having carefully painted all this Above the king of mountains
At the foot of the mountain One should draw the waters of the great ocean. {.
“Around the edges of the canvas, One should draw flowers, such as The blossoms of the ironwood tree, pannay tree, Bulletwood tree, juhi jasmine, {.
“Royal jasmine, and beautyberry. Always include red amaranth, Fragrant blue lotuses, And, further, white lotuses. {.
“One should draw these different varieties And other fragrant species of flowers. One should always draw Only flowers of the species as described. {.
“One should make offerings pleasing to the Teacher In order to worship him
Following the previously described procedure In regard to the superior painting, or the others, {.
“And having ensured that the skein, the weaver, And the painter are as desired
One should do the painting during the prātihāra fortnight, On an especially auspicious day. {.
“When such a time has arrived One should do the prescribed mantra recitation
One should execute everything, in every detail, Just as previously explained. {.
“One should paint the complete figure of the Teacher Using paints of bright and vivid colors
He should be fully endowed with his many aspects, Equal in splendor to the karnikara flower. {.
“One should paint this sage, born into the Jewel family, In golden color, With the same hue as the champak flowers And possessing all the features as described. {.
“He is the highly illustrious Ratnaketu, The most eminent and best of sages
One should paint this jewel among buddhas Who has control over all phenomena. {.
“He sits on a jewel mountain, Adorned with jewel caves, In a cross-legged posture, Delivering a Dharma discourse. {.
“With a gentle smile on his face, This hero’s mind is steeped in concentration
One should also paint whatever is On the outside of his cave, below, and around it. {.
“In the corner at the end of the canvas one should paint The practitioner, kneeling down
In his extended hand he holds incense, And his body is slightly bent forward. {.
“One should paint him as wearing an upper garment And other clothes just as in real life, Above the great ocean that is To the lower right of the Blessed One. {.
“One should draw him—the practitioner of mantra who aspires for perfection — Wholly applying oneself to the task
This is the procedure of doing the painting, As has been taught by those venerated by the world
Now will be taught The maṇḍala of the deity. {.
“The mantra practitioner should really understand The mantra at the time of employing i
And always use it to do the preliminary practice, Training thus for success in recitation. {.
“For this reason he should be initiated into the mantra From this manual, so beautifully taught— The mantra that is associated with the maṇḍala conduct And always requires initiation. {.
“He should have confidence in the maṇḍala, Be initiated into all its mantras
Always apply himself to the tantra, And be able to perform the rite of self-protection. {.
“The master, possessed of great splendor, should also protect His assistants with demon-slaying [mantras] and examine them carefully
He should be well established as a spiritual master And keep his observances. {.
“He should have profound insight, be always gentle, Noble, and compassionate
And look for the same characteristics In all his assistants. {.
“One should accept as disciples those who are well qualified— One, two, or three, Or perhaps eight or more of them— But avoid [accepting too] many. {.
“One should always follow, for this maṇḍala, The procedure as previously explained
Those possessing the ten powers declared This to be the best of maṇḍalas
One should therefore draw no other maṇḍala, And follow no other rite but Mañjughoṣa’s. {.
“I will now give the measurements Of this very magnificent maṇḍala
It should be four cubits, two cubits, Or perhaps eight, or more, in diameter. {.
“One should draw it in a clean place, Especially a riverbank or a mountaintop
One should use powders of five colors And follow the previously taught procedure. {.
“The maṇḍala should have four corners, four doors, And be adorned with four gateways
Its four sides should be of equal length, And its splendor should equal a divine enclosure. {.
“The paints should be of bright, vivid colors, Pure and beautiful, With a nice fragrance and other aspects
One should start painting it with the help of a companion, {.
“While observing silence and one’s temporary vows, As well as the eight [precepts]
One should be untroubled in mind, moderate in eating, And virtuous; continually recite the mantra; {.
“And refrain from evil activities, Performing only those of pacifying and enriching
One should start in the center And draw the Teacher using paints. {.
“First, one should paint Tathāgata Ratnaketu, Complete with adornments of various jewels, Sitting inside a cave, And of great splendor. {.
“He sits in a cross-legged posture And turns the wheel of Dharma
One should draw on the canvas Everything that is normally offered to the Teacher. {.
“It should be adorned with mudrā symbols Arranged in three rows. One should paint all that is offered, Arranged in rows all around. {.
“They should be densely packed together, Arranged in order without mixing them up
In their center should be painted The wheel-turning lord of great power. {.
“He has the color of the rising sun And the radiant form of a divine youth. One should paint him with care As turning the great wheel. {.
“He is in his form of a great king, Invested with a crown and other adornments
Wearing a diadem of a great being, And adorned with every ornament. {.
“He wears a fine silken sash around his waist And brightly colored silk garments
He is garlanded and adorned With garlands and clothes with a gentle, soft glow. {.
“He inhales the fragrance of a cluster of bulletwood blossoms, Which he holds in his right hand
He is a deity with a gentle smile on his face, Of great valor and power. {.
“He is of beautiful physique, Neither too young nor too old
In his left hand he always holds a wheel Enveloped in a garland of light. {.
“One should paint him sitting with one leg tucked in and the other extended, His arms close to his torso
He is radiant with a divine glow, Well formed and beautiful. {.
“He sits on a heap of jewels, With his whole body emitting a great radiance
He grants boons, always becoming active In response to any propitious mantra. {.
“Blazing like fire, He is adorned with a halo of ligh
And surrounded by flames Fanned by the wind. {.
“If they apply the mantra, People on the earth will blaze with light the same way
A Dharma follower who visualizes Such a great hero {.} “Will cause all mantras to take effect And will be freed from all his faults
Even if he has committed the five acts of immediate retribution, Is undisciplined or indolent. {.} “All such negativity will be appeased, And he will be liberated by seeing the Lord
Merely by seeing the maṇḍala Of the lord of deities, the wheel holder, Other known types of negativity Will depart too, at that very moment. {.
“Next, one should purify the eastern door With the mantra of the Lord
The maṇḍala should be clearly visualized, Surrounded by gateways
Adorned with plantain trees, And thoroughly elegant in form. {.
“One should offer bali, always including Incense, lamps, perfume, and beautiful garlands
One should do everything respectfully, Following the previously described procedure. {.
“In front of the wheel-holding monarch, In the center, one should place a full jar
A mantra adept should not allow this jar, Which is called ‘victory,’ to be moved. {.
“One should then dig the fire pit, Following the right procedure, And commence the homa rite, Employing none other than the mantra of the Lord. {.
“One should offer into the fire of cutch tree sticks One thousand and eight oblations Consisting of sticks of the dhak, sandalwood, Bilva, cluster fig, or sandan tree. {.} “One can likewise offer devil’s horsewhip In all types of activity, applying care. Alternatively, one can offer sesame seeds smeared with ghee And mixed with burnt gandha. {.
“In all types of activity, One should always offer one thousand and eight oblations At the three junctions of the day as previously described. As taught by the sages, {.
“One should bathe, put on clean clothes, Eat the three ‘white foods,’ choose an auspicious nakṣatra, And perform the previously described rituals, Including recitation, homa, and others. {.
“One should perform all of [the above] Employing One Syllable, who is like The [entire] family of Cakravartin employed as a mantra
One should employ him in all rites. {.} “This sole hero, always without maṇḍala companions, Applies himself to his tasks with great power
One should perform the rites for all mantras Always reciting him during the performance. {.
“Every rite will then be accomplished— The rites for the mundane mantras, preferred by the world
And for the supramundane, of great valor
And for the vidyārāja s possessed of intense ascetic ‘heat.’ {.
“All the mantras taught in this manual, And other mantras, will be successful 
Those taught by the sages; By their sons possessed of the ten powers; {.
“By Śakra and other world protectors; By Viṣṇu, Śiva, and Brahmā; By Sun, Moon, or other [luminaries]; By the kings of yakṣa s or the rākṣasas; {.} “By mahoragas, or kinnaras, Or by the best of terrestrial sages; And by garuḍas, mātṛs, Humans, or other beings. {.
“All the mantras that have ever been taught Will reach accomplishment here, As One Syllable gathers in himself all mantras And is the leader in all rites. {.} “He is the leader in all rites As he controls all mantras. He is the enthraller of all beings, And the full extent of the tantras and mantras. {.
“This mantra, One Syllable, makes the rites Of all mantra reciters bear fruit
By merely reciting it, One can attract all deities. {.} “He, the great lord One Syllable, Is the master of all rites
He produces various wonderful results That are praised by the good. {.
“If employed correctly, he will accomplish Both mundane and transcendent mantras
Having completed the painting, Entirely pleasant to look at, {.} “One should place it in a clean location, On a riverbank or the top of a mountain
One should always do this facing west, Following the previously described method. {.
“The practitioner should then turn eastward and, Following the correct procedure
Sit of a bundle of darbha grass And recite the mantra in an orderly way— {.
“Not too loud and not too low, Wholly focusing on bodhicitta
If one does not hate any being, One will attain accomplishment swiftly, in this life. {.
“One should always cultivate the mind of loving kindness Toward beings who are suffering and miserable
Who are without a protector, forlorn, Afflicted with pain, and weak; {.
“And who are fallen into this terrible saṃsāra. One who thus feels compassion will be successful
One should always place, in front of the painting, Many offerings, with great care, {.
“Including a visualized, celestial woman Emerging from one’s heart. One should either visualize or physically present these offerings To the completed painting of the victorious lord. {.
“One should dig the fire pit at the same location, Following the procedure according to the nature of the rite. When the fire is fully ablaze, The practitioner should offer the oblations: {.
“White sandalwood and camphor Should be offered in combination with saffron
A mantra adept should offer Into the burning fire one hundred and eight oblations. {.
“One should always use the wood of The cutch, waved-leaf fig, banyan, or dhak tree
One should energetically light the fire Using sticks from any of the trees just mentioned. {.
“If sticks from these trees are unavailable, One should procure other sticks, Perhaps from a neem or a mango tree, Or a thorn-apple bush. {.
“The ones to be avoided, known to be used in evil rites, Are sticks from any plant that has thorns. Employing the One Syllable, One should perform the rites of pacifying and enriching
Accomplishment will come swiftly
Evil rites should not be performed. {.
“These extensive ritual instructions That include all the mantras and the rites Will always lead to accomplishment If applied without concepts
The mantra deities will then be summoned And the boons will be granted. {.
“The mantra practitioner who desires a kingdom on the earth Should offer into the fire, in a complete homa rite, The sticks of the waved-leaf fig, cluster fig, Dhak, or banyan tree, {.} “Smeared with ghee and curds, With the addition of honey
If he desires the queen along with the kingdom, He should offer saffron and sandalwood. {.
“If he desires lordship Over vidyādhara gods, He should offer ,, lotus flowers With attached filaments. {.
“At the end of the homa, One should give a welcome offering to the Teacher. A supreme painting will, at this moment, emit light, Being, [in this way], marked by the victorious ones. {.
“Upon merely touching it, One will ascend to the realm of Brahmā, Or as far as the realm of the Akaniṣṭha gods, Or perhaps all the subterranean paradises. {.
“When obtaining any of these accomplishments, One will certainly become a king [in the respective realm]
Firm in one’s vows and valorous, One will make the spirits flee. {.
“In due order, one can always become, Upon completing the rite, the king of vidyādharas
Furthermore, one can live a long time, Equal to an eon, {.
“And when one dies, after all this time, One will certainly progress toward awakening
There is also another rite, Whose details, in a condensed form, are as follows. {.
“One should procure white lotus flowers And combine them with white sandalwood
If one offers them in ten million oblations, One will be able to see Ratnaketu. {.
“Upon seeing this supreme victor, One will obtain the five superknowledges
One will live for a long, great eon, And will be a follower of the Buddha. {.
“One will be able to see infinite buddhas, Located throughout the quarters of the universe
One should always worship them, And will dwell together with them. {.
“The realm called Ratnāvatī Is the one where the Blessed One lives, The supreme and most excellent sage, The most eminent tathāgata Ratnaketu. {.} “One will always dwell there, Purified by the mantra; there is no doubt
The following is another cherished rite, Which has been taught by the most eminent of men. {.
“A mantra practitioner should blend together The blossoms of the ironwood tree, Camphor, sandalwood, and saffron
He should then offer them into the fire ,, times. {.
“At the conclusion of the homa, The deity will arrive along with his retinue
Pleased, he will definitely grant a boon, Touching the practitioner on the head. {.
“As soon as the practitioner has been touched, He will become the master of the seventh level of realization
He will be called ‘bodhisattva,’ A true son of the victorious ones. {.
“Always dedicated to awakening, He will be prophesied to attain it
And from then on, he, the son of the victorious ones, Will know whatever is to be known. {.
“He will know all the mantras, And will happily follow his exalted destiny
By merely seeing Ratnaketu He will obtain the five superknowledges and become the king of mantras. {.
“He will always be able to assume different forms And different identities at any time
He will always delight in the act of worshiping Those who are endowed with all the best attributes. {.
“In an instant, he will become eager Only to perform activities of awakening
He will be able to visit, instantaneously, Different worlds and buddhafields. {.
“He will roam everywhere In thousands of world spheres And be able to see the good deed
Of the buddhas and bodhisattvas. {.
“He will hear their Dharma teachings And will eagerly worship them
There are also other rites That originate from the victorious wheel turner. {.
“One should offer one hundred thousand lamps With wicks fed with pure ghee, Set in golden or silver dishes, Or perhaps copper or clay. {.
“When these have been lit By one hundred thousand men And placed by this whole group On one hundred thousand floats, {.
“And only men, without women, Stand around with lamps in their hands, They should make an offering to the Teacher in the painting In an act of worship. {.
“With all of them simultaneously engaged, If each one recites the mantra And makes offerings to the Teacher while reciting, Accomplishment will manifest instantly. {.
“All around the sound of thunder will be heard, And the drumming of drums
Many hosts of gods Will exclaim, ‘Good!’ {.
“The buddhas and bodhisattvas Will appear in the sky and say, ‘Good, O wise being
You have made your ritual performance work! {.
“ ‘You will not experience again The suffering that saturates saṃsāra
You will remain in the state of a buddha, In safe, happy, and fearless nirvāṇa. {.
“ ‘You have embarked upon The path that is auspicious and pure, Eight branched, based on the right livelihood, And guarded by the wheel-holding One Syllable in his mantra form.’ {.
“There is yet another rite, Which leads to the highest birth
It has been taught by all the buddhas And is known to confer great powers. {.
“One should take a piece of neem tree wood And make from it a vajra scepter With three prongs at either end. The middle part should represent the buddha of the Vajra family. {.} “One should then purify the vajra with the mantra And place it in front of the painting
The practitioner should then recite the mantra, Fully concentrated, while touching the vajra. {.
“After completing ,, recitations What is desired will be accomplished
The vajra will then emit a single flame And illuminate everything all around. {.
“Then, by picking up the vajra, One will thus ascend upward
One will visit the world of Brahmā, Or any other celestial realm equal to it. {.
“One will travel through space As the foremost of siddha s
One will become the master Of siddha s, vidyādharas, and so forth. {.
“One will become a wheel-turning monarch Reigning among a host of gods
One will be able to assume different forms, Based on the correct ascertainment of the nature of the body. {.
“One will be able to remain in this condition For ten intermediate eons, without deviating from it
Always enjoying pleasures and venerated, Always endowed with a beautiful form and qualities. {.
“One will follow the conduct of bodhicitta, Free from the sufferings of repeated birth
One will become a celestial siddha, Free from all negativity. {.
“Passing on from there, one will be born a human Destined for a life of many pleasures
Not straying toward any other destiny, One will wholly pursue the goal of awakening. {.
“One’s activities will be diverse and infinite, And one will be venerated, bringing benefit to many
When this king of mantras is recited As part of the full ritual, {.
“One will obtain a suzerainty over the earth, A state of Śakra, or that of a universal emperor
One may also assume the condition Of a vidyādhara or a god, {.
“Or any other numerous forms, And perform the types of activities here described. If a mantra practitioner applies himself to the task thoroughly, He will attain every accomplishment. {.
“At night, seated with crossed legs, The vow holder should recite the mantra uninterruptedly
The reciter will attain accomplishment by the next morning And will obtain the five superknowledges. {.
“Stepping upon a corpse in a cemetery, The vow holder should recite the mantra without moving
The One Syllable being able to accomplish great aims, One can expect accomplishment by morning. {.
“If this lord of vidyā s, of great power, Is recited in a cemetery, The reciter will attain accomplishment within six months And obtain the desired result. {.
“At whatever place the One Syllable, Of great power, is recited, At that place will the reciter attain accomplishment, If he employs the mantra in the right way. {.
“A white parasol, a sword, A jewel, a pair of shoes, earrings, A garlands of pearls, an armlet, a banner, A bracelet, a ring, {.
“A girdle, clothes, Tooth sticks, a water pitcher, A sacred cord, a turban, A coat of mail, leather armor, {.
“An antelope skin, a water pot, A rosary, a pair of shoes, All the best adornments To be desired in both worlds, {.
“The adornments worn By the gods, men , or others— All of them will be accomplished If one recites in front of the painting. {.
“All the substances, minerals, Adornments, jewels, And the different kinds of weapons, If placed in front of the painting {.
“And incanted once, will become pure
If incanted eight hundred thousand times, They will all emit light together
The reciter will rise upon being touched by them. {.
“Different types of beings With different features and forms, Adornments, and weapons, Whether made of clay or real, {.
“Either self-animated or fabricated, And different types of birds— All entities that are described As artificial or natural, {.
“Beings that have names, and those that do not— Will be accomplished when purified by the mantra
Beings that live in different mediums And are composed of different elements {.
“Will have the courses of their births Purified by the mantra
If they are placed in front of this painting, Following the procedure as previously described. {.
“Touching them, a mantra practitioner should recite The mantra six or seven times one hundred thousand
If, at the end of the recitation, they emit light, One will attain full accomplishment. {.
“Upon merely touching them, One will be able to fly throughout the four directions
One will live happily for a long time And obtain, in this life, the status of a god. {.
“Reflecting the manner in which This very powerful vidyārāja is employed
He will become pleased And will always grant boons. {.
“When employed in other rites Whose ritual instructions are very extensive
This very powerful vidyārāja Will swiftly accomplish them. {.
“A mantra adept pure in mind and activities, Who always delights in purit
And stays in a pure place, Will attain a pure accomplishment. {.
“One will reap the fruit according to the activity: From the highest comes the highest; For activities of medium type, the fruit will be medium; If it is of the lowest type, the fruit will correspond in nature. {.
“A rite, if performed properly, Will yield great wealth. However, if the rite is not accomplished properly, It will yield only a small result. {.
“Merely by reciting continually, One will attain great prosperity and power
A reciter will invariably obtain A king’s affection and ministerial office. {.
“If this king of mantras is recited but once, He will destroy all negativity
If recited twice or seven times, He will provide a powerful protection for oneself. {.
“If he is recited eight times, One’s companions will be protected in all respects
Furthermore, a mantra practitioner Should incant both his garments. {.
“When both garments are incanted, He will have removed all disease
Touching these garments, after the mantra was recited, Will destroy all bodily fever. {.
“If mantra practitioners carefully incant Their face or eyes, or both the face and the eyes
They will destroy the anger of the angry Merely by being looked at. {.
“For any host of evil spirits, Violent and engaged in negative actions, The practitioner should look them in the face [With his eyes] incanted thirty times with the king of mantras. {.
“Also, if he incants His own hand repeatedly And delivers with it a blow, He will liberate any embodied being. {.
“Regarding children, he should always Bathe them and give them food and drink, Having incanted these articles sixty times With this exalted mantra, worshiped by the gods. {.
“All evildoers will then depart— The mātṛs, the kravyādas, and the grahas
Frightened by the mantra they will perish, And certainly abandon the children. {.
“There are many rites of this kind; If they target [troublesome] humans on earth, They will, likewise, Swiftly repel them. {.} “Whatever beings swim in rivers, And the different species that roam the dry land, Be they venomous or not, Will perish, burst by the mantra. {.
“Whatever types of suffering And whatever unpleasant experiences beings may have Will be repelled by this king of mantras And swiftly become pacified. {.
“Whatever kinds of terrible pestilence there are, Which are attended upon by suffering, Will swiftly vanish away If this mantra is recited six hundred times. {.
“One should perform the rites of homa Offering one thousand and eight Fragrant blue lotus flowers Smeared with honey, curds, and ghee, mixed together. {.
“Offering sesame will bring peace to spirits And well-being to human beings. The mantra practitioner will thus be able to swiftly accomplish All these different types of activities, {.
“Brought forth by many different rites, If he applies himself well
Through merely reciting the mantra One will be able to appease the anger of one’s enemies. {.
“There are many extensive rites Connected with the meaning of this mantra
It is said that if one follows the prescribed procedure, One will here obtain success in them. {.
“The mantra that is recited Will certainly effect the minor activities here
When recited, it will always swiftly fulfill The aims of all ritual activities. {.
“In order to enthrall all beings, It is necessary to recite the mantra at the three junctions of the day
One should always perform the rite of homa Using the blossoms of royal jasmine. {.
“Prescribed also are white sandalwood, Camphor, and saffron
The mantra will always bring results For superior reciters. {.
“One will accomplish desired aims If one recites along with the indispensable homa
The required homa should be prepared With the proper ingredients such as camphor and so forth. {.
“One should perform various rites, Prepared the way one desires— If the homa is small, the rite’s success will be minimal
If it is big, the results will likewise be significant. {.
“If it is medium, the result will be middling; The success of the rite is always explained in this way
One should therefore take special care to include Homa in all ritual activities.” {.
This concludes the chapter that provides the details of the practice of the cakravartin, including the painting procedure and the maṇḍala, fourteenth in “The Root Manual of Noble Mañjuśrī,” an extensive Mahāyāna sūtra that forms a garland-like basket of bodhisattva teachings
At that time, the bodhisattva Vajrapāṇi, the great being, was present in the midst of the same gathering
Seated, he rose from his seat, circumambulated the Blessed One clockwise three times, and
prostrating at the Blessed One’s feet, said this to him: {.
“Good, O Blessed One
For the sake of those who follow the conduct entailing the ritual divisions of vidyā and homa rites performed at the junctions of the day, you have clearly explained and elucidated with supreme eloquence the path that consists of rites involving vidyā mantras
the path that manifested from the great Cloud of Dharma; the path that comprises the detailed ritual instructions pertaining to the cakravartin, the great vidyārāja who is the heart essence of all the tathāgatas; the path that brings results and fulfills all aims completely
the unsurpassable path that leads to awakening; the path marked with the cause that generates the conditions, actions, and their certain results; the path that is the root of virtue that causes the attainment of the ten miraculous powers, and whose ultimate goal is to ascend to the seat of awakening. That, Blessed One, is excellent
May the teacher please instruct us on the signs that accord with the accomplishment of mantra that appear in dreams, signs indicating the time when the beings who engage in the practice of all vidyā mantras should commence the activities that cause accomplishment, so that all vidyā mantras—the causes that fulfill the rites—bear results.” {.
Thus addressed, Lord Śākyamuni said this to the bodhisattva Vajrapāṇi
“Good, O lord of yakṣa s! You act for the benefit and happiness of many people. You act out of compassion for the world, in the interest of great numbers of people, for their benefit and happiness. You act in the interest of all the practitioners of vidyā mantras
Listen well then, and carefully reflect upon what I will now tell you. {.
“First, commencing the preparatory procedure as before, which is the same for all types of activity, one should go to a secluded place such as a mountaintop, a riverbank, a cave, or near a crossroad and build a hut at a clean spot
Following the same procedure as before for all types of activity, one should install the painting and worship it with sumptuous offerings
Then, during the bright fortnight or the prātihāra fortnight, always on an auspicious day, during the first watch of the night, one should prepare a mixture of white sandalwood, camphor, and saffron, and light a fire using sticks of the cutch tree
Sitting in front of the painting at a distance of four cubits, one should throw the oblation into the smokeless and flameless embers one thousand and eight times
Then, at the end of this offering, one should offer into the fire one thousand and eight lotus blossoms smeared with white sandalwood
At the end of the homa, one should form the mudrā of the auspicious seat and offer a seat to one’s mantra deity, using the same mantra. One should, however, perform the homa reciting the following mantra. {.
“Homage to all the buddhas, the perfect teachers
“ Oṁ , you with the form of a divine youth! Show it, show! Reveal the truth to me in my dreams for the sake of my good fortune! Hūṁ hūṁ! Phaṭ phaṭ! Svāhā! {.
“After performing the protection rite using this mantra, one should complete the required number of oblations in the homa rite as just described
Then, having spread around blades of kuśa grass that are pointed at both ends, one should go to sleep in front of the painting, not too far from it and not too near, with one’s head pointing east, using for a pillow a bundle of kuśa grass
During the first watch, while keeping oneself awake, one should salute all the buddhas and bodhisattvas, confess one’s wrongdoings
and offer oneself to all the buddhas. Then, one should surrender to the power of sleep as one likes. {.
“Dreams that occur during the first watch Are known to be generated by the humor of phlegm
Those of the second watch, as they arise from bile, Should be discounted as being of worldly origin. {.
“One should know the dreams of the third watch to be generated by the humor of wind, And those of the fourth, to originate from truth
As for the phlegm-influenced dreams at the beginning of sleep, One should always watch out for the following: {.
“One may behold numerous jewel mountains, Strings of pearls everywhere, Or oneself bathed In a mass of water, {.
“Fully immersed in streams, Or floating in a great ocean
Wherever one perceives One’s body to be, {.
“One may see that place as dotted With lotus ponds all around, Floating gardens, And tavern houses {.} “Riding upon the waves That surround them on all sides
One may also see the Himalayas Made of crystal and abounding in great rivers, {.} “Trees, and the king of mountains Fashioned from piled-up crystal And shaded by a latticework of pearls With masses of pearls. {.
“Subjected to the influence of phlegm, One may see a great rain with masses of water
Or a bright white parasol With white adornments, {.
“Or perhaps a white elephant. Such dreams are said to be influenced by phlegm
One may see a white yak-tail whisk, Or a man dressed in white. {.
“If one touches sea salt, and so forth, Or salt in general, Or a strip of cotton or linen, Or perhaps iron, silver, or aloewood, {.} “Touching or ingesting them Indicates that the dream is of the phlegm type
If one eats roasted beans, Sesame paste, sweet rice pudding, {.} “Or different types of beans, This, again, indicates that the dream is of the phlegm type
Some say that eating svastikā cakes, Or other food, such as rice-and-grain pudding with milk, {.} “Brings on dreams Of the phlegm type
The same goes for śaṅkulya or parpaṭa cakes, Or different types of soup. {.} “Touching or eating them will cause An increase of phlegm in one’s dreams
It is agreed that there are many such types Of hard and soft foods, in many forms. {.
“If one eats or touches them, The dreams will be induced by phlegm
If one dreams of a seat, a bed, or a carriage for traveling That is fashioned from a living being— {.} “If one touches, mounts, or sees such During the first watch of the night As objects in one’s dream, All such dreams are said to be influenced by phlegm. {.
“Dreams of these types emerge from And are effected by water, And may be an indication of [having eaten] Any of the various hard or soft foods that produce phlegm. {.
“Seeing these objects in one’s dreams Is due to the action of phlegm-producing foods
The guides of the world have described Many dreams that are hard even to conceive of. {.
“For living beings, it is in the second watch That dreams related to bile occur
A person may see in a dream a blazing fire, A light emanating from various jewels, {.
“A conflagration, or meteors Flashing in all directions
Seeing these in a dream indicates that One is debilitated by bile. {.
“Likewise, should one see in one’s dream a ruby, Or something else consisting of jewels, One should know that these objects appear To someone affected by bile. {.
“Corresponding to the experience of the element fire, If one touches or ingests Different yellow articles in one’s dreams, One is debilitated by bile. {.
“One whose body is debilitated by bile May see in one’s dream A sun that burns uninterruptedly, Continually spreading its intense heat. {.
“One may also perceive, in one’s dream, The sky as being of golden color And the ground as yellow. This is due to the debilitating influence of bile. {.
“If one dreams, during the same watch, Of a fire blazing all around And illuminating the firmament of the sky, One is flooded with the humor bile. {.
“One may see the ground colored golden, Or the mountains, piles of rocks, A great elephant for riding, Or everything made entirely of gold. {.
“If one sees these persistently while asleep, One is debilitated by the movement of bile
If one dreams of a vessel made entirely of gold; Or a golden carriage with similar adornments; {.} “Or a seat, or perhaps a bed Made entirely of gold— If one touches or mounts them in one’s dream, This indicates that the dream is of the bile type. {.
“One may see oneself in a dream as wearing Yellow garlands and clothes, Covered in yellow unguents, And provided with a yellow sacred cord; {.
“One may also see in one’s dream One’s own body as yellow
This is due to the debilitating influence of bile, Which manifests itself during the second watch. {.
“These are the different categories That dreams are grouped into based on color
Thus, the dreams of the various appearances of yellow Are caused by the humor bile. {.
“The body’s being affected by bile Manifests during the second watch
A great variety of forms Arising out of yellow light {.
“Have been taught by the most eminent of men To originate from bile
As for the dreams that are of the wind type, They are said to occur during the third watch of the night. {.
“If one sees all the directions Completely filled with light, And perceives oneself as moving through space, Traversing the firmament of the sky, {.} “And continually wandering everywhere Through space as far as the expanse of the sky, Such a dream is said to be of the wind type, As it brings this type of experience. {.
“Swimming, jumping, Climbing trees, Reciting all treatises, The mantras in particular, {.} “And also teaching or speaking, Are generally caused by wind
Also, climbing thorny trees, Or eating food that is very bitter, {.} “Pungent, or sour—any such type of food— Is caused by wind
Tree fruits that are scattered by the wind Produce masses of the humor of wind — {.
“If they are eaten in a dream, Such a dream is said to be generated by wind
The element wind present in Liquid and solid foods and substances {.
“Agitates the minds of beings When they touch or eat them
If one sees oneself As being a servant to all beings, {.} “If this vision comes in a dream, Such a person should be known to be of the wind type. Different types of movements, Different types of embracing and speaking, {.} “Or different harsh expressions Indicate that the dream is the wind type
These and other types of dreams Have been taught by the most eminent of men. {.
“Three types of associations have been taught Related to those who are of the attached, hateful, or deluded types
Those with a proclivity to attachment generate phlegm
Bile is the product of hatred, {.
“While wind originates from delusion
A mixture of the three generates a mixture of humors
When attachment is stirred in sleep, It will manifest as sexual dreams. {.
“Thus, the desire for women will manifest In dreams generated by phlegm
Quarreling based on hatred Will occur in dreams generated by bile. {.
“Torpidity born from delusion Manifests in dreams as the loss of memory
In reality, though, dreams always manifest Based on a mixture of the humors. {.
“Thus, that which is designated as a dream Is devoid, in all its [three] types, of pure essence. Those who teach the truth taught the activities and lifespans Particular to each of the [humor-based] category of beings. {.
“Thus, beings described as being of the phlegm type Have a nice complexion and are soft-spoken
They live long lives, are intelligent, Have oily skin, and are self-confident. {.
“They are fair skinned, tall, And always fond of intercourse with women
They are virtuous, heroic at any time, And always delight in showing respect. {.
“When this is indicated by their birth horoscope, They could be jealous and lack distinction
Some may become kings Fit to take command of an army. {.
“Living according to their prescribed activity, They will attain prosperity
Their activities and their fruits are described as follows
They do not neglect the activity [in favor of] the mantra
As the mantra, according to what the guides of the world have said, Is not the most important thing in terms of activity. {.
“It is therefore said that in this world Success belongs to those of the phlegm type. They will attain dominion over the land, Great prosperity, and magical powers. {.
“A mantra reciter should not take Any of the phlegm-producing foods in excess
If one overindulges in these foods, One’s dreams will become bereft of meaning. {.
“A mantra practitioner should therefore not indulge in these foods, As they are said not to be conducive to accomplishment
A wise and clever person Should not sleep at that time. {.
“Now the characteristics of a person Of the bile type will be described
“He may be prone to hatred and anger
Of black complexion, and physically weak
He may be cruel and engage in cruel activitie
And continually display a tendency toward deceit. {.
“He may also be continually valiant and darin
And be endowed with strength and intelligence
He is talkative, has many friends
And has a deep understanding of many treatises. {.
“Virtuous and firm in his actions, He is also described as prone to hatred
He is intelligent and possessed of great power, But shows the signs of hatred. {.
“He resents the valorous, is wealthy, Understands human nature
And is of pleasant appearance, free, detached, Stable, and always tolerant of suffering. {.
“Proud, greedy, and angry, He is always fond of women
Full of great energy and firm in applying the mantras, He becomes very prosperous. {.
“He engages beings by assaulting them, As they submit to the way he acts
His mantras—those that arrest the life force of beings— Are always successful. {.
“He swiftly accomplishes his violent aims That have been rejected by the Sage
The activities of such an individual— Those that harm living beings—will succeed. {.
“Rites of any mantra practitioner That involve ritual methods Will be successful when executed carefully, Which is not the case for other individuals and rites. {.
“So, too, the hateful mantras That oppress other beings Can, by the same token, interrupt the mantras of others And succeed against angry beings. {.
“Wrathful mantras will be successful In seizing the property of others Or arresting their life force; Such activities should not be combined with other mantras. {.
“A being predisposed to hatred Can attain dominion over others
He may be of a black, dark, White, or mixed complexion. {.
“An ordinary human predisposed to anger Cannot possibly have a golden complexion
Such a person will have a rough and smoke-colored Or tawny complexion. {.
“One born in the sign of Scorpio Is heroic, cruel, and lustful
Being in the house of the planet Mars. One who is under the influence of Jupiter is predisposed to phlegm. {.
“Such a person will eat little And be fond of pungent and sour tastes
His life will be long And his memory good. {.
“Now I will describe the activities and mannerisms Of a person by nature predisposed to wind
He has an unhealthy or rough complexion But, in general, is not too weak. {.
“He is of feeble intellect and little knowledge, Unstable, and ungrounded
With a trembling body, tottering, He vomits a lot and frequently defecates and urinates. {.
“He eats a lot and all the time, And he talks a lot
Being hostile to everyone, He has many enemies. {.
“He is undisciplined and unhappy In his life on earth
Mantras for becoming invisible Are said to succeed if used by him. {.
“He delights in foods That stir up the humor of wind
A mantra reciter should, however, never eat them, If he wants his activity to be successful. {.
“Beings agitated due to the humor of wind Are predisposed to the arising of ignorance
They are described as belonging to the delusion type, And become accomplished in stupefying mantras. {.
“For those who are of the deluded type, It is always desired to be accomplished in causing stupefaction
One should ascertain the asterisms of the water signs To know the true significance of planetary influences. {.
“One should not perform peaceful activities If one is of the wind type and confused
Likewise, one should not perform the enthralling, Attracting, stupefying, or destroying of beings. {.
“Regarding the arising of delusion-generated evil In beings dominated by the humor of wind, The following signs have been taught That indicate the truth in dreams. {.
“They have been previously described by sages As serving the interests of beings
Aries, Taurus, Gemini, Cancer, Leo, {.} “Libra, Virgo, Scorpio, Sagittarius, Capricorn, Aquarius, Pisces, the elephants, The celestials, the monkeys, the asuras, {.
“The siddha s, the gandharvas, the yakṣa s, and so forth— All those renowned to humanity— The zodiac signs have been taught By the supreme ones to the masses. {.
“Different activities have been described, Of many types and various purposes. In all these activities and the accumulated karma, A wide range of qualities comes to fruition. {.
“It has been taught that for ordinary beings No activity is devoid of such qualities
Thus, one who engages in activities takes rebirth Based on the qualities [of his karma]. {.
“When these qualities are infused with religious merit, The practice of mantras will be successful
The reciter who understands the true nature of such qualities Understands the merits and defects of his karmic bonds. {.} “If the authentic ritual procedure is not performed, The activity will not take place, even if the qualities are present
This is because the ritual produces the activity
Such ritual is not without its qualities. {.
“One who possesses the karmic qualities For performing rituals will succeed
Such ritual activities, along with their procedures, Have been formerly taught by those with the ten powers. {.
“The karmic qualities for [performing specific] rites Are indicated by the beings’ behavioral tendencies
The different forms they see in dreams are regarded, similarly, As the products of their karmic activities. {.
“Thus, based on the signs received in dreams, One can determine the full range of activities to engage in
Signs of different forms, Some pleasing and nice to look at, {.
“Others ugly, or with forms of obstacles, Will appear in dreams
People who desire accomplishments Should be very enthusiastic and diligent. {.
“The accomplishments will come to them In terms of being of the highest, medium, or lowest range
Activities that are violent and cruel Always bring on dreams immediately [indicative] of the ripening fruits. {.
“Regarding the highest, steadfast activities, They will be accomplished after a long time
Worldly activities of those who are predominantly worldly Will produce [corresponding karmic] qualities. {.
“There are many dreams that occur to mantra reciters That indicate their accomplishment of the mantra
Lethargic sleep portends that The mantra will not be accomplished. {.
“In that situation it is recommended to recite The mantra that destroys the obstacles
One should employ at that time A mantra that is appropriate for reciters. {.
“The prescribed [mantra] is the six-armed And six-faced [Mañjuśrī] Mahākrodha
His four-syllable great mantra Resides within his youthful form. {.
“He is of a terrible aspect and very frightening
Manifesting in a form of a boar In order to destroy the obstacles; Black as night, he is the king of gods. {.
“He is dressed in a tiger skin And adorned with snakes with expanded hoods
This great being holds a sword in his han
And appears in the form of Death of great splendor. {.
“He is tough on all obstacle makers And ends the life of vināyakas
Hear, all the beings, his mantra, The fiercest in the tantras. {.
“This mantra removes all obstacles From any given being
It accomplishes all mantras. Assembled gods, hear me! {.
“Homage to all the buddhas, the perfect teachers! The mantra is: “ He he, Mahā­krodha ! The six-faced, six-legged destroyer of all obstacles, hūṁ hūṁ ! Why do you tarry? O destroyer of the life of vināyakas, destroy my bad dreams! Lunge forward, lunge! Remember your pledge! Phaṭ phaṭ, svāhā!” {.
As soon as this king, the Lord of Wrath, was pronounced, all the vināyakas and obstructers became disturbed and frightened
With fainting hearts and panicked minds, they paid homage to Lord Śākyamuni and Mañjuśrī, the divine youth, and remained samaya-bound to them. {.
Lord Śākyamuni then looked at the entire realm of the Pure Abode, and said this to the great assembly of his followers
“Ho ho, assembly of gods! He is the Lord of Wrath 
While any of the worldly or transcendent mantras are being accomplished, the Lord of Wrath will tame any evil being that causes harm to the reciter, along with the culprit’s family. He will cause them to wither but will not take their lives. Having burnt them and dried them up, he will assign a role to them, appointing them to protect, support, and guard the reciter
The being thus appointed will have to sustain the reciter
Any such being who would transgress this obligation and harm the practitioner who is under the protection of the Lord of Wrath {.} “Will have his head split into seven pieces by the Lord of Wrath, Like a garland of arjaka tree blossoms.
Having spoken thus, the foremost one among sages Said this to Mañjughoṣa: {.
“Divine youth
Your mantras fulfill All aims, the whole range of aims
Especially for practitioners who Pursue the aims of the mantra system. {.
“This mantra has been taught by the Lord of Wrath in the tantra
As the one that destroys all obstacles
And appeasing the anger of enemies
“It affords protection to sentient beings And destroys bad dreams
It has been taught by the supreme among people, the buddhas, As being able to accomplish the aims of all mantras. {.
“I will further teach The auspicious characteristics of men For whom the mantras are successful— Those of the highest, medium, and the lowest types. {.
“One who is energetic and intelligent; Has a golden complexion, a large belly, Elongated eyes, and smooth skin; Is dispassionate and free of anger; {.
“Has red eye-corners and speaks nicely, For him accomplishment is of the highest type
One with delicate skin, a dark complexion, And slim limbs that are not too long; {.
“Who is full of enthusiasm and energy, Content, virtuous in every respect
And pure on the account of his high birth; Who has few desires, and is of weak constitution, {.
“His accomplishment is certain— It will be of the highest kind in all activities
One whose body is not in any way inferior
Who is dark as panic grass, full of vigor, {.
“Untroubled in mind, intelligent, Always celibate and pure
And always fond of fine clothes
Who knows the ways of the world, is disciplined, {.
“Has many friends, is always detached, And eats moderately
And who is pure, skilled, and moral, Always enjoys pure conduct, {.
“Speaks the truth, and is compassionate Will reach the highest type of accomplishment
One not missing any limbs, full of qualities, Born to a good family, always adhering to the Dharma, {.
“Devoted to his mother and father, Reverential toward brahmins and guests
Very compassionate, and steadfast Will reach the highest type of accomplishment. {.
“One of pure, dark complexion and smooth skin, Who speaks little and always remains pure
Wants only the food and drink that are pure, Has sex only with pure partners, {.
“Knows the ways of the world, and is highly respected Will reach the highest type of accomplishment
One who is neither too short nor too tall, Has hair as black as antimony powder, {.
“Has loving eyes, is pure, Always enjoys bathing
And is propitiatory toward the Three Jewels Will reach the highest type of accomplishment. {.
“One who engages in noble activities, Who is a refuge to sentient beings and knows their minds
And who is forbearing, polite in speech, And reverent toward bodhisattvas
He will reach a supramundane accomplishment That is rich in results. {.
“One who is very honest, heroic, And full of vigor; who has undertaken solemn vows
Who is endowed with good fortune, knows the mantras
And understands the essence of all the tantras; {.
“Who belongs to the kṣatriya caste Or is an exemplary brahmin; who is intelligent
Cavorts with women, is always passionate, Has a golden complexion, {.
“Appears tall and fair skinned, And has a long nose, big arms, And dangling forearms; who is valiant, Aspires to rule a great kingdom, {.
“Is reverent toward bodhisattvas, Has a woman’s name, worships goddesses
And is devoted to the Three Jewels, Adorned with bodhicitta
Very compassionate, steadfast, And has a certain amount of anger and ignorance; {.
“And who is endowed with good fortune, profoundly detached
Of great vigor, difficult to subdue
Beloved by women, and valian
Will also win accomplishment of the highest type. {.
“One who is valiant, delights in drinking
Always is in the company of women
Is of golden complexion, lives on little food
Has broad hips, and is pure, {.
“Compassionate, caring, skillful
Knowing in the ways of the world, highly esteemed for his qualities
Always dedicated to reciting the mantras
Willing to give up his life for the victorious lords {.
“And also for their sons, the śrāvakas
As well as to the pratyeka­buddhas
Who is mighty, eminent among men
Belongs to the pure second caste, {.
“And is complete with all the limbs of his body
Always cruel and rash
Detached, disciplined, victorious over his enemies
And able to distinguish between virtue and nonvirtue; {.
“And who is not too hefty and not too lean
Not too tall and not too short
And preeminent among the averag
Will attain accomplishment of the highest kind. {.
“One with copper-colored, smooth fingernails
With the palms of his hands red and clean
With the extremities of his feet red and smooth
And adorned with circles, swastikas, {.
“Banners, archways, fish
Flags, lotuses, and water lilie
Visible on his hands and feet
A person marked with these signs {.} “And fitting this description is the most excellent
And to his lot will fall the best accomplishment
One with white, cavity-free, And long teeth that resemble mountains
{.} “With a long nose, elongated eyes, Knitted brow, a beautiful chin
Eyelashes distinguished in the world like those of a cow, Black, beautifully outlined eyes, {.
“A broad forehead, A beautiful head shaped like a parasol Or shaped like a turban, Beautiful ears, {.
“Jaws shaped like those of a lion
Lips the color of ripe bimba fruit
A tongue the color of a lotus petal
An intensely red palate, {.
“A neck resembling a conch
Full, muscular shoulders
Exquisitely beautiful flanks and bosom
A broad chest, {.
“A slim torso
Broad, beautiful hips
A deep navel with hair curling to the right
A network of straight veins, {.
“Dangling forearms, and big arms and hips
Who is distinguished by a lion’s chest
Has round thighs
And elbows free of blemish; {.
“Whose calves, like those of an antelope, Are said to be well proportioned and round
Who has fleshy feet With red, upraised toes {.} “With red, smooth toenails— Feet that are nicely arched and adorned with flesh
Whose head . . . the surface of the earth; Who has beautiful ears, nice to behold, {.} “Smooth, of nice color, clean
Praiseworthy and distinguished in the world, Above which there is a network of veins That are not bulging
{.} “Whose two pathways for voiding excreta Are deep and turn toward the right
Who has two fine testicles, Small, round, beautiful, {.
“Without injuries or cracks, And nicely separated
Whose member becomes drawn in After voiding the bodily fluid at the end of physical passion; {.
“Who, during sleep, after the eating of Aphrodisiacs contained in food or drink, Profusely releases a fluid That appears blue or red; {.
“And whose [penis] releases much fluid, is smooth, And is marked with signs of beauty— The person of this kind Will attain the highest accomplishment. {.
“One who defecates three times and urinates six times [a day ], Is pure and enjoys performing purificatory observances, Goes to bed at the end of the watch, And gets up early Will attain the highest accomplishment With regard to all activities. {.
“One will enjoy A variety of results And great prosperity again and again. One is marked with medium characteristics
If one is born in the asterisms Of Puṣya, Revatī, Phalgunī, {.} “Maghā, Anurādhā, Citrā, Rohiṇī, or Kṛttikā. One born in them is handsome, And marked by the planets as capable. One that was [born under the aforementioned stars] at dawn Will manifest accomplishment. {.
“If the auspicious planets— The pure white moon, The yellow Mercury, and Jupiter— Are observed at the end of the day, at midday, or at dawn, They indicate, for all people born at that time, That they will be fit for attaining accomplishment. {.
“If people born in such periods Engage in virtuous activities, Their mantras will easily succeed In accomplishing all their aims. {.
“After noon has passed And always when the sun is setting— Always during these periods— Planets exercise cruel influence upon beings. {.
“Sun and Mars are, [at that time], inauspicious, As are comets, Rāhu, and Saturn, The chief among planets, Earthquakes, hurricanes, and meteors. {.
“At that time the stars are very inauspicious. Black omens boding misfortune And fearful portents of death Will appear at that time. {.
“If, at the time of the sun’s rising, Mercury looks upon Earth; If at a yoke’s distance from the sun, Jupiter looks upon Earth; {.
“If Venus, a further yoke’s distance away from the sun, Is looked upon by Kubera; If, at the height of noon, The moon’s aspect affects the beings, {.} “Then, respectively, Mercury’s influence will bring kingship
Jupiter will bring wealth and pleasures
Venus will bring wealth, Kingdom, and pleasures
{.} “And the moon will bring long life, Power, and achievements
Similarly, when the sun marks the midday, Its corresponding midday aspect manifests
When noon has passed, The sun always looks upon the quarters. {.
“If Ketu is said to be within One angular yoke [above the horizon], not higher, And if Rāhu and Saturn Create darkness at noon, Soon after evil omens will occur, Such as meteors or earthquakes. {.
“If the setting sun is of copper color, With a strong tint of vermillion, One born under this aspect of the chief planet Will be a handsome male child. {.
“He will look like Mars himself, Very fierce, with a javelin in his hand
Then, when the sun has passed a yoke’s length, The auspicious planets will emerge. {.
“One born after the sun has appeared Will be cruel and impetuous
If it is Saturn or Mars, One will be cruel, lustful, and proud. {.
“Harm will come to those born Under the smoke-like omens of Ketu
Such people are poor, violent, and greedy, And are always ignorant. {.
“In the time of darkness, when the earth shakes, Meteors streak, and planets are inauspicious
When there are earthquakes and hurricanes, Light-phenomena, and burning thunderbolts; {.
“When ominous lightning and other signs Appear in place of the Pleiades and other stars
When all beings behold The terrifying sight of Rāhu, {.
“At that time people are poor, without a protector, undisciplined, And constantly engage in evil and dishonest acts
Such people are born into suffering— Their lineament being affliction
They suffer from leprosy and many diseases, Such as blindness, lameness, and boils. {.
“They are hermaphrodites, neuter, and childless, Unlucky with and repugnant to women
In this way, men, women, and others Attest to the inauspiciousness of the planets. {.
“They are born in many worlds, having experiences According to their astrological births
The planets that are ‘white’ and ‘yellow’ are the best; Being born under them is the source of happiness. {.
“As for the colors, the white and the yellow Have been described by the victorious ones as the best
Seeing the four main planets— Venus, the moon, Jupiter, and Mercury— {.} “Will ensure success For the reciter in all [ritual] activities
As for the simple folks, Their births will always be fortunate. {.
“Every desired good fortune, As explained by the most eminent of men, Will be instantly obtained, Within the twinkling of an eye or a finger snap. {.
“Their birth-assigned position has been described in brief By the most eminent of men
Its limitations and standards are determined By the planets who oversee the world. {.
“These planets rise regularly At their usual time, as is their nature
Auspicious or inauspicious, they always Course in their orbits. {.
“Beings perform evil and virtue, And thus inhabit their specific realms
“But somehow, to some degree, They will develop evil intents
Wholesome and unwholesome results Will thus arise for them again and again. {.
“It is said that, according to their aspect s, The planets incite karma and cause it be experienced
Swiftly, swiftly they catch up with beings; Swiftly, swiftly they approach. {.
“Visible or not, their speedy approach happens instantaneously, In the twinkling of an eye or a finger snap
That is the exact amount of time Described by those of superior intellect. {.
“Next I will explain What the birth horoscope always entails
The twelve moments [favorable for undertaking an activity] And the appropriate and inappropriate time in relation to causes
I will also explain who is not a suitable vessel, Or does not possess the causes for accomplishment. {.
“Favorable omens, in turns, appear And do not appear to people. Kingdoms collapse, there are famines, Or there are bountiful harvests, and kings enjoy prosperity. {.
“A person destined to die, whether a timely or untimely death, Should always act benevolently
When there are comets, earthquakes, and hurricanes, When meteors streak and smoke is present, {.} “The behavior of constellations, days of the week, and stars, Which is either virtuous or nonvirtuous, Influences the conduct of every being, Which oscillates between good or bad. {.
“I will now describe the behavior— Of the kravyādas and the mātṛs, Those fierce murderers of living beings— And other evil beings who feed on flesh. {.
“Those with sincere faith in the deity, Rich in Dharma and of superior intellect, Who are always engaged in wholesome activities And cultivate thoughts of loving kindness and compassion, {.} “Who use their intellects for the sake of noble endeavors And dedicate themselves to fulfilling the needs of others, Can summon the mātṛs by uttering the mantra In order to nourish them with food. {.
“I will describe in detail the manner In which they take possession Of the bodies of others, And how they remain in the bodies of humans. {.
“The gods are said to be rooted in merit, And the asuras in pride
They thus abide in these two ways, Known as gods and asuras, along with their retinues. {.
“The latter are further subdivided Into two, the cruel and the ordinary
The last are also subdivided into two groups, The virtuous and the nonvirtuous, [liable to follow] the five destinies. {.
“The gods there are of three kinds— ‘Twenty,’ ‘thirty,’ and ‘infinite’
The sovereign gods up to the realm of Akaniṣṭha, The Yāma gods, and the innumerable earth guardians. {.
“The worlds are infinite— Both virtuous and nonvirtuous
Therein dwell saṃsāric beings And also the noble śrāvakas, {.
“The buddhas, the pratyeka­buddhas, And their dear offspring— The bodhisattva great beings— Established on the ten levels. {.
“Thus all beings always take Their respective types of birth
All the immature beings Follow the birth of the destinies
All the noble buddhas, on the other hand, Are liberated from the ocean of saṃsāra. {.} “They all necessarily have their characteristics, Always follow their respective modes of conduct, Speak their own languages, and possess latent natures
“All spirits can be summoned By those who correctly employ the mantra methods
One who knows the mantras for summoning and possession Can use them on beings who inhabit the bodies of others. {.
“They can be summoned, in the human realm, By mantra reciters who can distinguish Between virtuous and nonvirtuous activities, Are not careless, keep reciting the mantra, Do not follow foolish conduct, And are equally tolerant of disfavor and kindness. {.
“I will explain all the signs that indicate success According to their respective natures
In order to protect their human bodies That are always afflicted by suffering, {.
“And for the sake of the infinite Dharma And their own liberation, it is always recommended That they ward off evil beings, And worship the pure ones. {.
“A mantra method is thus prescribed For keeping the former in check or showing the latter favor
In this regard, the ritual procedure is threefold, Reflecting the three natures of either wind, phlegm, or bile. {.
“To those afflicted, one should administer the rite of pacifying, Which is known to be threefold
In the case of humans, one should always Administer the remedy by means of the mantras. {.
“A living being is a combination of the great elements, But is regarded as more than just these elements
When they are overcome by any of these elements, They are referred to as one who has an element in excess. {.
“When a living being has any of the elements in excess, They will develop an illness
Elements , in regard to their type, Are divided into two types. {.
“Thus, an element is always designated As either sattva or asattva
These elements are bile, phlegm, wind, And any other of the great variety of substances. {.
“The great elements are four, Or five, if space is added
Water, which is paired with heat, And earth, which is paired with wind, {.
“Have been declared by the wise ones As belonging to the category of asattva, And so did the most eminent lord of the world, The one of great splendor. {.
“This best of speakers, the most intelligent one, Has said that asattva elements are associated with Nonhuman beings, And the sattva elements , with humans. {.
“Whether a being is human or nonhuman, They are always called a sentient being
It is for the good of sentient beings That this omniscient teaching was delivered. {.
“The past and future buddhas, And also those of the present time, Taught about activities That produce good and bad results. {.
“The teaching of the buddhas states That activity always produces results
Being in the same category, the accomplishment Will therefore definitely manifest itself. {.
“This accomplishment is said to be omniscient knowledge, Forbearance, tranquility, consistent purity, Certainty that phenomena are pure and devoid of self, The ultimate truth, and liberation. {.
“This very path has been taught For sentient beings in this sūtra, Which contains the true medicine of the mantra— A complete teaching for this world. {.
“Venerated in all the treatises Of the past, the present, and the future, This teaching concerns the absence of self in phenomena, Which is a state always tranquil and auspicious. {.
“This teaching of the omniscient one Truly concerns his own highest state
It alone sets down the way For the arising of omniscient knowledge. {.
“The power of all the buddhas And the bodhisattvas who are full of wisdom Manifests itself as an accomplishment In all activities that involve the mantras
It is in order to bring about this accomplishment That this king of manuals has been taught by the lord of sages. {.
“Following this path meant for embodied beings, Which is the essence of mantra, One can attain the city of nirvāṇa, A tranquil place where there is no aging
No grief, and no pollution, which is a peaceful, Always auspicious state of awakening. {.
“This instruction of all the buddhas, Intended for the mantra reciters
“It establishes the karmic cause For the omniscient knowledge of things
The entire purpose of mantra Is directed toward the three aspects of awakening. {.
“The entirety of the knowledge possessed by the buddhas Has been explained in this manual
It has been spread through all the worlds For the benefit of sentient beings. {.
“Certain things found in this king of manuals Cannot be found in other manuals
But whatever has been taught by the best of sages And their sons in other manuals, {.} “All of that, all the mantras, can be found in this manual
This then is a detailed manual
For this very reason the lord of sages Taught it to all beings. {.
“There is no one on this earth, Or in the triple universe, Who would not be attracted to And enthralled by this king of manuals. {.
“When the moon-like Sage is gone And the maṇḍala of this earth is empty, This manual will remain in the world And keep fulfilling the purpose of the doctrine. {.
“The divine youth Mañjughoṣa, Who is always pure, Will continue to do the Buddha’s work And spread the doctrine to all the beings. {.
“Those who, for a long time, have been thirsting For the power of this king of manuals, Will be liberated having heard it just once
They will certainly attain accomplishment. {.
“This teaching bears fruit for all beings And is always pure
Mantra practitioners always delight in the recitation and the homa Performed for the sake of all beings. {.
“Whatever knowledge is contained In the types of knowledge present in the three times, The same knowledge can be found In this supreme king of manuals. {.
“The instructions of the buddhas Taught in this manual are founded on mantras
These mantras are nonconceptual, Yet they have been taught in this ‘conceptual’ manual. {.
“Every sentient being commits virtue and nonvirtue, Whether with or without purpose
The virtue and nonvirtue present in all the worlds Accord with the intellect of beings particular to their type of birth. {.
“He has been elaborated on in this manual By the tathāgatas, themselves free from mental elaboration
He was taught here for the sake of the world By the self-awakened buddhas who transcended the world. {.
“Transcending the worldly And surpassing all dharmas, [He, the supreme] performer, does various things That are wonderful and venerated by the world. {.
“This king of mantras engages in these activities For the benefit of large numbers of beings
He, Mañjughoṣa the divine youth, Carries out the Buddha’s work. {.
“There is both virtue and nonvirtue in the world— His purpose is to spread good qualities. If I am requested, I will teach; Not requesting is said to be non-Dharma. {.
“It is taught by the Buddha Solely for the benefit of every being
It has been taught by the past buddhas And will now be taught by me {.
“With the earnest desire that the lineage Of the buddhas remains unbroken, And that omniscient wisdom arises In all activities of the mantra practitioners. {.
“The only activity that deserves to be praised Is the one based on omniscient knowledge
Since previous actions performed in one’s respective world Are being experienced now, {.
“One should perform the [right] activities, Though it may be difficult to perform them in this life
Based on these activities, the mantras will succeed Without effort even in this life. {.
“The accomplishment will come in this life, Manifesting also in one’s activity
The ritual activity is therefore Extolled by all the buddhas as something unique. {.
“When such activity is performed according to procedure, The accomplishment will swiftly follow, even in this life
Naive and careless beings, Who are ignorant of the right procedure, follow erroneous paths. {.
“Thus these activities alone, with all their aspects, Have been deemed praiseworthy
The activity should follow the procedure
If it does, it will be successful. Activity that lacks the right procedure Will not succeed even after a very long time. {.
“There is no liberation without samādhi
Liberation is never devoid of samādhi
Accordingly, awakening is said To combine samādhi and liberation.” {.
This concludes the chapter with detailed instructions on the meaning of all ritual activities, fifteenth in “The Root Manual of Noble Mañjuśrī,” an extensive Mahāyāna sūtra that forms a garland-like basket of bodhisattva teachings
The blessed Śākyamuni looked again at the realm of the Pure Abode and spoke to Mañjuśrī, the divine youth
“Mañjuśrī! Requested by the wise king of yakṣa s who holds a vajra in his hand, I already taught in detail, in the middle of this assembly, your complete chapter on the ritual activities intended for all purposes. {.
“I taught about the good and bad aspects of dreams And how they relate to all the mantra purposes
I taught all of it at length For the mantra reciters.” {.
The king of yakṣa s, pleased at heart, Folded his hands at his forehead and, Bowing his head before the Teacher, Said at that time, {.
“The one of supreme intellect taught Out of his kindness for the people, Out of his compassion for me, And for the happiness of beings, {.} “About the good and bad aspects Of all the mantras and dreams of the reciters, About the extensive qualities of the conduct Of noble and debased beings, And about determining the causes For the highest birth and destiny. {.
“He taught the knowledge of what is beneficial And detrimental—past, present, and future
He taught the complete, all-encompassing knowledge— The dynamic aspect of all-knowing awareness. {.} “He taught about the auspicious tranquility described As being without a visible form, without support
Which expands without mental elaboration And is endowed with all the supreme aspects. {.
“The one of superior intellect Described the powers of all the buddhas In particular for those reciters Who pursue all the aims of mantra. {.
“He taught the ritual activity, its complete result, And the right time for the rituals
He taught about the vessel, the place, and the possession, Which teachings were requested in the context of dreams.” {.
The king of yakṣa s then bowed to the best of sages, To the supreme seventh tathāgata
Whatever buddhas appeared in the auspicious eon, The Bull of the Śākyas was the seventh of them. {.
He, Lion of the Śākyas who conquered the enemies, Is regarded as the seventh
The lord of the world, the bringer of light, A perfect buddha for the lowest eon, {.
A sage of great diligence and wisdom, Renowned for his great energy
It was to him that the yakṣa Vajrapāṇi Bowed in homage. {.
Mañjuśrī, the wise one, stayed silent And remained in his seat. The [seventh] sage then spoke to him, The sagacious one, as follows: {.
“[Vajrapāṇi] requested the Buddha, The most recent and chief among sages, ‘It is good, O fully awakened Blessed One! Please teach at length the knowledge of ritual activities. {.
“ ‘Teach how one’s birth horoscope constitutes the chief factor In explaining one’s virtuous and nonvirtuous character traits
Explain the actions of many beings Based on the understanding of karmic causes; {.
“ ‘Teach about the signs of the reciters’ accomplishments, Differentiated in terms of what should and should not be accomplished, [The signs] exhibited by those entered into and possessed [by spirits], And the reciters who pursue various virtuous goals; {.
“ ‘Teach also, for the sake of those who desire, in this world, Riches, power, and enjoyments
For those who want to rise to prominence and obtain a kingdom, And for those who want to hold on to their success. {.
“ ‘In short, please teach The complete, all-pervading knowledge.’ 
So spoke the supreme sage, When requested by [Vajrapāṇi,] the son of the victorious ones. {.
The seventh sage then spoke [the following] stanzas In the pure voice of the Buddha’s speech. The wise one had a voice like that of a cuckoo bird, Spreading like the sound of a celestial drum, As sweet as Brahmā’s, and resounding like A thunderous cloud of great might. {.
“Those, O divine youth, who abide in the highest truth Gain accomplishments to benefit the world. They guide the world to every good fortune and benefit
May [the accomplishments] of these lords of liberation remain pure. {.
“Those who possess honesty, unwavering diligence, a sober mind, And loving kindness and who always delight in generosity Will always be successful
Others will never succeed. {.
“Those who always find joy and delight in the supreme mantra And in the instructions of the wheel holder or of Mañjuvara Will overpower Māra and turn the wheel, Just as befits a wheel holder in this world. {.
“There is a divine speech, pleasing to the mind, From which, however, fools are ever separated
This divine speech is pleasing to the ear, captivating, Lovely, sweet, and agreeable. {.
“It refreshes the mind and bestows happiness
The buddhas call this speech Mañju
But even they, with their superior knowledge of a tathāgata, Are unable to understand his power. {.
“Their sons who are established on their respective levels And accordingly reckoned as falling into ten groups, perfect and divine
Even they, O lord of gods, are unable To understand his divine power, which surpasses the ordinary. {.
“The same is true for the celestials of the form and formless realms, Gods of the desire realm, or human beings, Even if they have attained yogic accomplishments
Or for outstanding individuals who surpass everyone else in this world. {.
“There is no being anywhere Who could fully understand his splendor
The buddhas call him ‘Gentle Splendor,’ Knowing that splendor is merely a concept. {.
“ ‘Gentle Splendor’ is an imputation, A name given to you by the victors in the past
It was imputed to you as your name By the past, present, and future buddhas. {.
“One who hears your name in saṃsāra With a one-pointed mind that is neither distracted nor impur
Will obtain the auspicious peace And awakening when still in saṃsāra. {.
“He will accomplish all the mantras And obtain the best possible rebirth and destiny
One who always relies on the supreme Dharma Will be free from obstacles and will attain accomplishment. {.
“One will thus master all the desired mantras And swiftly attain the pleasant awakening in this world
The chief among sages arrives at the Bodhi tree And sits there for the benefit of beings. {.
“He awakens to realization and turns the wheel [of Dharma], The quality of which has been described by the chief victors
[The same] chief victors [also] described your name, remembered as ‘Glory’ ( Śrī ) that is called ‘Gentle’ ( Mañju ), as having inconceivable qualities. {.
“The chief victors of the past, however many there have been, Even if they were to explain your power continually Over innumerable eons, would not be able to describe it Nor [the power of] the hundreds of mantras, O pure divine youth! {.
“All the buddhas, without exception, have taught The complete mantra system of Mañjuśrī
These instructions of yours, O divine youth, cover everything, And the diligent ones derive the highest pleasure from them. {.
“Beings who dwell in the Pure Abode, And all beings without exception, will attain peace If they never violate your mantra In any way whatsoever.” {.
This concludes the detailed sixteenth chapter with versified instructions in “The Root Manual of Noble Mañjuśrī,” an extensive Mahāyāna sūtra
Now Lord Śākyamuni entered the samādhi called the magical display of all the tathāgatas 
As soon as he entered this samādhi, rays of blue, yellow, dazzling white, red, and crystal-colored light issued from the tuft of hair between his eyebrows
They brightened the entire buddhafield and illuminated the interior of every realm of the universe
while darkening all the planets and constellations and summoning them in an instant
After summoning them, the light assigned them to their respective places and drew them, by the power of the Buddha’s blessing, into the circle of the assembly. It then disappeared into the same tuft of hair between Lord Śākyamuni’s eyebrows
All the planets, constellations, and stars, their light blocked, approached Lord Śākyamuni, pained and frightened. They stood with folded hands, trembling and prostrating themselves on the ground again and again. {.
Lord Śākyamuni then gave the following talk For all the celestial bodies such as planets, constellations, and stars
He gave it as an act of kindness for all the beings Born with the intelligence of a child. {.
“Listen, esteemed friends, hosts of gods along with men
The karma of individual beings causes them to experience the world differently
The way the bodies of beings manifest, whether the vajra bodies of the blessed buddhas or the various bodies of gods, asuras, and humans circling in saṃsāra, lost in its wilderness—all of this is a product of karma
This karma, whether it is good or bad, still constitutes fetters
There is no creator here who creates, nor godhead, nor the puruṣa and prakṛti as espoused in the Sāṃkhya system
Nothing of this kind exists, except for that which is produced by karma
Everything that is generated in dependence upon karma thus has a cause
This cause, in turn, depends on its own causes and conditions
In this way, everything is mutually interconnected, being generated through dependent origination
Living beings are generated from the [five] great elements that coalesce together. {.
“These great elements exist within the five aggregates throughout the beginningless transmigrations
They manifest in the place of another birth, developing into an elaborate [whole] with all the [constituent] parts
The habitual tendencies generated by karmic actions can, however, be completely burnt by the fire of gnosis that blocks and prevents [the arising of elements ] at another time
One can effectively accomplish the equality of the three vehicles and the state without conceptual elaboration
This will happen as the result of the karma produced by following the Mahāyāna for a long time
Following [the Mahāyāna] for a medium length of time will bring about the self-arising gnosis of a rhinoceros-like pratyeka­buddha
Within a short time, one can attain the regal state of a śrāvaka who listens to the teachings of others
If naive and confused people do not turn to non-Buddhist doctrines, their intelligence will grow. {.} “This world, with its different places and situations, is produced by different types of karma
Its cessation—the auspicious state without old age, sorrowless and pure—[is produced by] karma based on worldly accomplishments that are pure, [namely] the detached eightfold karma that arises out of the [eightfold] path
Karma is produced by karma and has no other basis but itself. {.} “One who is free from dualistic thinking Will remain free from both action and inaction
Following the threefold path, one will obtain No other tranquility [but that of the path]. {.
“The mantras thus fall into three groups
And the [resulting] activity is of three kinds
The fruit [thereof] is threefold And the reflection [thereupon] is threefold too. {.
“Inverted activity is threefold And is regarded as such
Virtue is regarded as threefold, As can be gleaned from the tantras. {.
“The religious community is also such, And so is the entire seat of the mantras
The community of buddhas with pure minds Abides in the peace of nirvāṇa. {.
“This karma is here taught, section by section, As part of the science of mantras
For the sake of success in the world, The discipline of astrology has also been taught
Its subdivision, [the science of] karma, Is part of the teachings on causation. {.
“Just as [the cause in] a grain of rice Can be inferred by the sprout
So too [the cause in] the power substances Can be inferred by their effects. {.
“Just as the color white Is imputed [to an object] based on a convention
So, too, the astrological influences Are imputed [to a person] based on conventions
However, it is only karma that is deemed Wholly responsible for all such influences. {.
“Karma never resides in a body Without being indicated by [certain] signs
Such as marks, behavioral patterns, or a birth Into a particular category of practitioners. {.
“Karma can always be ascertained By various omens
Karma never itself possesses a body; It is hidden and can be discerned by other [signs]. {.
“[The condition of] a person thoroughly afflicted by fever Is indicated by the alterations [in their appearance]
In exactly the same way, the karma that resides in the body Of corporeal beings can be observed by them. {.
“The zodiacal birth-horoscopes are widely explained In terms of good or bad [karmic] results
The various omens reflect the various types of karma That beings are produced by. {.
“One should always note the time, The [mode of] locomotion, the different voices of beings, The good and bad results . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . {.} “To ascertain one’s karma, one should watch For the signs of success or failure
The telltale signs, the way of acting, and the marks Have been designated as the ascertainment. {.
“Therefore, one should take every care When observing [the signs that constitute] the ascertainment
If one is a mantra reciter, one should look For the cause of one’s success in the mantra. {.
“One should not regard one’s own karma And the karma of others as separate
Terrible and obstructing karmas Could all go undetected
All these branches [of knowledge] are therefore The topic of the Sage ’s teachings. {.
“The omniscient Śālendra­rāja Sat upon the seat of awakenin
And pronounced the mantra That removes all obstacles
One that removes bad dreams, Bad omens, and difficulties. {.
“While the mind of the omniscient great being Was thus steeped in awakening, Māra, with his evil mind, Created very frightening obstacles. {.
“Śālendra­rāja, [sitting at] the root of the tree, Saw that all this great terror was baseless
The many frightening forms Were, for him, without any basis. {.
“Having made aspirations over a long period of time, He accumulated merit and power
Consequently, by the power of his mantra, Namuci was defeated. {.
“Śālendra­rāja is endowed with magical powers and great energy
Being restrained, he possesses great splendor
One should strive to obtain the supreme awakening, Using the power of his mantra. {.
“This mantra, which obliterates bad omens, Will now by revealed
It removes bad dreams and difficulties, And wards off evil beings. {.
“Please hear it, O hosts of gods; This king of mantras [controls] Planets, constellations, and other celestial entities. It was formerly taught by the victorious Śālendra­rāja. {.
“It is used in order to suppress the wicked Planets, constellations, and stars, And to awaken gentle thoughts In all beings. {.
“Please hear it, O hosts of spirits, All of you who roam the earth! Those without legs, with many legs, Or with two or four legs! In short, all the beings and inanimate objects Present in the three worlds. {.
“Homage to all the buddhas, the perfect teachers! “ Oṁ, kha kha ! Eat, eat! Huṁ huṁ ! Burn, burn! Blaze, blaze! Remain, remain! Ṣṇīḥ, phaṭ phaṭ, svāhā
“This mantra is known by the name of Jvāloṣṇīṣa, Its dazzling white light coming from the Buddha. {.} “There are thousands of rites— Eighty, nine and five. One who performs various rites With his thoughts completely attuned to virtue Can destroy bad dreams and omens With a single repetition [of the Jvāloṣṇīṣa]. {.
“One may perform other rites, Having mastered all the mantras
This mantra[, however, the Jvāloṣṇīṣa,] is a buddha, A powerful master who enthralls sentient beings. {.
“Through merely calling this mantra to mind, All the obstacles will be destroyed, And one will become a perfect buddha superior to the gods.
Having spoken this, the supreme among sages {.
Remained silent for a while, And looked on
The hosts of gods, too, Waited above the Pure Abode. {.
All the chief deities [Who personify] the constellations, planets, and stars, Frightened, took their samaya vows As they were told the mantra of Uṣṇīṣa. {.
The lords called uṣṇīṣa are capable, Very diligent, and of great brilliance
They are said to be four or five hundred in number, Or seven, eight, ninety, {.
One hundred and twenty, thirty-five, or another — So it has been proclaimed
The number of these auspicious kings That are born from the [Buddha’s] head is incalculable
The aforementioned mantra is identical with them, As explained by the victors in the past. {.
This concludes the detailed chapter on the ascertainment of one’s personal karma, seventeenth in “The Root Manual of Noble Mañjuśrī,” an extensive Mahāyāna sūtra that forms a garland-like basket of bodhisattva teachings
The blessed Śākyamuni now addressed all the most important grahas among the constellations, planets, stars, and celestial bodies that exist in all the world spheres—the grahas dwelling in all the directions and endowed with great magical powers: {.
“Listen, venerable friends, to my presentation on the respective powers of all the planets and constellations. Show your power, sirs
and accomplish the purpose of all the rituals involving the mantra
Keep your samayas and eagerly pursue an accomplishment in the doctrine contained in this sovereign manual of Mañjughoṣa and later expounded in other manuals as well.” {.
In the interest of all beings, the blessed Śākyamuni then taught about the action of the grahas
He, the omniscient one, taught everything for the benefit of all mantra reciters and in order to fulfill the aims of the mantra [system]. {.
“The three nakṣatras, Aśvinī, Bharaṇī, and Kṛttikā, Are ruled by the planet Mars. {.
“They are said to belong to the zodiacal sign of Aries, And no accomplishment will arise [when the moon is] in them
Accomplishments are classified into The highest, medium, and lowest types
One should not embark on any journey Whenever one is obstructed by the cruel planet. {.
“Rohiṇī and Mṛgaśirā, along with Ārdrā, Are said to be nakṣatras too, And so are the celebrated Punarvasus, Puṣya, and Āśleṣā. {.
“Further, there are Maghā, the two Phalgunī, As well as Hastā, Citrā, Svāti, Viśākhā, Anurādhā, Jyeṣṭhā, and Mūlā. {.
“The two Āṣāḍhās are praised as auspicious And good for mantra reciters
The nakṣatras of Śravaṇā and Dhaniṣṭhā Are recommended for cruel rites. {.
“Both Śatabhiṣā and the two Bhadrapadās Are conducive to accomplishment
Revatī brings good fortune And also competence and fearlessness in battle. {.
“The main ones among the remaining nakṣatras Do not occur during the lowest eon
Abhijit is known to have an auspicious influence And to bring accomplishments and merit
Tiṣya is secondary in importance; It is the last and the least significant. {.
“Truth and honesty are praised As the light of the world
[This light] brings happiness and virtue When unobstructed, but can also be obstructed
It is a majestic king that grants renown, And it is the king of the world. {.
“Nakṣatras are said to be many— Sixty-four thousand in all
However, during this lowest eon They do not possess this power
They are taught in this king of manuals that brings happiness Simply for the sake of information. {.
“During the golden age, Beings’ powers manifested by themselves
They all could travel through space And were free from old age and death. {.
“At that time there were no nakṣatras, No sun or moon, and no stars
During the best of eons at the beginning of time There were no gods and no asuras. {.
“There were no names and no clans; No lunar days and no birth horoscopes
No fasts, no mantras, And no karma, whether good or bad. {.
“Beings could wander as they pleased Without food or eating
They were always Very pure and healthy. {.
“However, their consciousness became ‘seized,’ Making them into worldly beings
Drawn by their previous karma They subsequently fell down to earth, {.
“Where they lived in celestial mansions, Commingling with gods and asuras
Then, when the middle eon arrived, They took on human bodies. {.
“Being fond of food and drink, They lost their [physical] luster
Their bodies became solid, And their conduct ambivalent—good and bad. {.
“From then on they became bounded by Days, months, planets, and other celestial bodies
From that time onward, Whatever astrological knowledge there was, {.
“I taught all of it, showing patience And kindness to sentient beings
I formerly assumed the appearance of sages, Such as the sagacious Brahmā. {.
“I took on the body of Maheśvara And also assumed the guise of Viṣṇu
I used a body of a female garuḍa, And the bodies of yakṣa s, rākṣasas, and gandharvas. {.
“I was born in a body of a female piśāca, And I was born again and again
Becoming, in these consecutive births, A skillful bodhisattva. {.
“I was a bodhisattva in the past, During that particular eon, Because of my power to always choose A birth suitable for practicing the conduct of awakening. {.} “I also was, in former times, A naive person veiled by the darkness of ignorance
In this world, however many disciplines of Knowledge, crafts, and occupations there are— {.
“Whatever is found in the scientific treatises, Works on polity, the Purāṇas, the Vedas, works on grammar, Sacred hymns, or works on astrology or arithmetic— All are regarded as conceptual construct, {.} “False knowledge, and ignorance, As well as mistaken conduct
I formerly recited in this world All the treatises for a long time, {.
“Yet I found no knowledge whereby I could become a sage who remains at peace
A knowledge that brings awakening And also constitutes the cause of liberation. {.
“My actions confined me in the prison of saṃsāra, Rather than deliver me into Stainless buddhahood and peaceful nirvāṇa From where there is no falling back. {.
“But now I have attained the perfect awakening That I had desired for so long
I attained it solely by myself, By applying the rituals as prescribed. {.
“I attained the self-arising knowledge That was formerly taught by the victorious ones
I do not see the state attained By external methods as the same. {.
“When lost in the wastelands of saṃsāra Where causes of awakening are difficult to find, I could not obtain knowledge Of the kind that arises by itself. {.
“But now, as I have attained nirvāṇa by employing The ritual activity and delighting in what is good, I will teach specifically This collection of topics. {.
“Without ritual activity, Causes of accomplishment cannot be won
This yarn of saṃsāric existence is very long
It is woven and held together by karma. {.
“This yarn has many destinies [strung along it]
The nakṣatras, grahas, and other astrological entities Merely indicate the good and bad [results] That are in the process of ripening. {.
“For people not attuned to the Dharma No other signs can be observed [except for the planets and so forth.
Consequently, the planets and other [astrological entities] Are said to fall into the categories of either good or bad. {.
“The four guardians of the world— Water, earth, wind, and light — Are known to constitute the celestial luminaries
These same [four] great elements Account for [all] the assemblages of elements. {.
“Thus they conglomerate to form living beings When stirred to do so by karma
The mantras will be successful Within the limitations of [astrological?] time periods. {.
“In these births, one should be protected With great care, in weal and in woe
For this task, at the time at the end of the eon, The lords of gods have been assigned. They are Śakra and so forth, Distinguished and eminent in the world. {.
“The mantras, applied with care, Will produce accomplishments during the lowest eon
Because of this, the victorious ones Appointed the divine youth— {.} “Mañjughoṣa of great wisdom, In the form of a young boy
He will wander throughout this entire world, Ready to show kindness to beings. {.
“At that time achievements pertinent to Mañjughoṣa will be seen
The science of astrology Will come into existence at that time. {.
“At that time, during the lowest eon, The twenty-seven nakṣatras will become known, As will the muhūrtas, And the twelve signs of the zodiac. {.
“The planets are assigned to the zodiacal constellations Of the nakṣatras, which they inhabit
Occupying wide spaces, They each have a separate location. {.
“Regarding their horoscope and course of life, Beings depend upon their birth sign
They are born ignorant, do things the wrong way, And reap good and bad results. {.
“For that reason, their birth sign can indicate Their [particular] karma time and again
[These signs] determine what course will be successful For beings to pursue, whether it is virtuous or not. {.
“If the nakṣatra linked to the birth horoscope Has been charted out as Rohiṇī, One will enjoy good fortune, Have many sons, and live a long life. {.
“One will always be wealthy And will do well as the general of an army
If one’s birth sign is Taurus And this constellation is traversed In the nakṣatra of Mṛgaśirā, One will understand people and be virtuous and good looking. {.
“Similarly, if the Kṛttikā part of Taurus is traversed And ‘King’ looks upon Earth, One could become a ruler over the three oceans. This may manifest based on one’s birth horoscope. {.
“Alternatively, one may become a king in a province, Or a place difficult to access. If the planet is designated as Jupiter And one’s horoscope is right, {.
“One will come to enjoy The entire earth all around
One may be appointed to kingship Within ten or five years. {.
“One born under the sign of Aries, Which spans the nakṣatras Aśvinī, Bharaṇī, And a part of Kṛttikā, is very smart. He would do well in business and accumulate much wealth. {.
“If, through one’s birth sign, One is endowed with power and pleasures, But, at the time of one’s birth A red disk of the sun, {.
“When it is about to set, is in one’s nakṣatra, Things will go wrong
One will be born cruel, impetuous, And prone to telling lies. {.
“One is then observed, in one’s life on earth, To have delicate skin of reddish hue, And, it is said, one will open and close One’s eyes at the time of one’s birth. {.
“One born at these junctures Will possess these qualities in abundance
However, as for those whose delivery at birth Is said to take the time equal to a finger snap, {.} “They do not fit their [astrological] stereotype, As they are deprived of their planetary influences
Beings are born different, As their birth influences are a combination of many things. {.
“The modes of existence that manifest for them Are mixed, and so are their fortunes
For that reason they are not born Exactly as their horoscopes describe. {.
“Astrologically, there are thirty types of birth influences
They bring results that may be good or bad. Those who are marked by the planet Mars Will be of the cruel type ( jāti ). {.
“One who is under the influence of Jupiter Is always born steadfast, With a prominent belly, lovely appearance, And elongated eyes, and soft-spoken. {.
“Similarly, if the deities Sun and Moon have both risen And the sun is four angular cubits above the horizon, One can definitely expect a birth That is continually auspicious, day and night. {.
“Those with other horoscopes that are unfavorable, Who have been allotted [at birth] the opposite lot, Ought to gain control of their planetary influences [that govern] The positive and negative aspect s of their inauspicious birth. {.
“When the unwholesome results manifest, one can thus bring on, Through correct knowledge, that which is wholesome
Having taken a particular birth, One belongs, in this birth, to an astrological house. {.
“Beings [born] under the influence of the planet Venus Are by nature noble and pure
I will now describe [the influence of] the nakṣatras Of Ārdrā, the Punarvasus, and a part of Āśleṣā. {.
“A person born under these nakṣatras is very generous, But also impetuous and deceitful
He is always attached to women, lustful, And full of hatred whether with or without a motive. {.
“He makes sexual advances on other people’s wives, And his [skin color] is black or dark
He is born with a smoky complexion, Is very fierce, and is fond of sex. {.
“One may be born under the sign of Gemini With Saturn, positioned there
Slowly traversing [the sign] Day and night, bit by bit. {.
“If such a person is born at midday, He will possess great mental faculties
This is said to be the guiding characteristic For someone born at this time. {.
“He will own great wealth And be distinguished on earth by power and influence
If one is born in the nakṣatra of Puṣya or Āśleṣā, One’s zodiac sign is Cancer. {.
“For such a person, a connection With Jupiter betokens great magical powers
One’s complexion will be yellowish. This birth is proclaimed to be the best. {.
“For a person [of this sign] born at midnight, The following horoscope is given
One born at this time Will generally seek goodness and truth. {.
“Such a person will accomplish all his tasks, If he applies the prescribed methods
He will obtain a kingdom and wealth, Starting already in childhood. {.
“His complexion will be yellowish or dark, And he will appear healthy and strong
He will delight in pure conduct, Will have good fortune, and will be fearless. {.
“When the nakṣatras of Maghā, [the first] Phalgunī, And a part of the second Phalgunī Become the sun’s house, The designated sign is that of Leo. {.
“Great heroes are born under this sign, Who are fond of eating meat
They establish their power and kingdom In mountainous places difficult to access. {.
“[Whatever planets] are traversing through One’s zodiac sign at the time when the sun is rising, One is said to be born Under the influence of these [planets]. {.
“If one is born in the nakṣatras of [The Virgo] part of the second Phalgunī, Hastā, or the [Virgo part] of Citrā, One may become a powerful thief. {.
“One will lack restraint with regard to the wives of others
One may also become a general of the army. If this is indicated in one’s birth horoscope, One will obtain a kingdom. {.
“The house where these stars belong Is the sign of Virgo
Their dual regents are [the sun and the moon], Or another planet, depending on the location. {.
“The seniormost of these stars Are guarded by either the cruel planet
Or by the gentle planet, Or by the ever joyful and auspicious lord. {.
“If one is born in the afternoon And one’s birth [nakṣatras] Are those of Citrā, Svāti, Or the greater part of Viśākhā, {.} “Then the sign of Libra will bring much wealth
For beings who are under the influence of the moon, This is a terrible house
It will not make them unfortunate, though, but grant wealth. {.
“People who are born Under the same influences But at night, at the end of a watch, Will always be fond of drinking
They are discreet, respected for their modesty, Honored, and venerated. {.} “They may sometimes obtain a kingdom, Sometimes pleasures, and sometimes wealth
Unless determined by their horoscopes to be otherwise, Women [born under this sign] will be childless
If, however, their horoscopes are favorable, They will give birth to many children with ease. {.
“The [birth] influence of Anurādhā Brings perfect fulfillment of activities
One will have a loving nature, many friends, And will always be valiant and daring. {.
“It is said about Jyeṣṭhā that a person Born into the world [under its influence] will be fierce
He will experience and will have to put up with much suffering
People born [in this nakṣatra tend to be] cruel. {.
“The sign of Scorpio is described as Always intense and impetuous
I will now describe the types of birth And the astrological influences particular to this sign. {.
“If a person is born When the sun ‘marks’ noon, He will certainly become a fierce king Who wins battles. {.
“At such times, the planet in the form of a young boy Will exercise its influence at the precise moment
This planet is specified as Mars, Who [shines] his light onto the goddess Earth. {.
“Because of this, [such a king] rules the earth, Protected by his own son
If one’s position in life turns out to be different, It will be a mixture of good and bad things
One will, however, live long And be energetic and intelligent. {.
“One born in Anurādhā will possess Great wisdom and loving friends
This house belongs to Mars And always has mixed planetary influences
When the nakṣatra of Mūlā sets in, Followed by the first Āṣāḍhā and {.} “The [Sagittarius] part of the second Āṣāḍhā, [These three] are proclaimed as the sign of Sagittarius
This sign is the house of Jupiter. Its horoscope is as follows: {.
“When the sun ‘marks’ the afternoon, Or when the moon ‘marks’ the second part of the night, It is said that birth at this time Will predestine one to obtain a kingdom. {.
“[One born] at the onset [of Sagittarius] will destroy one’s family
[Birth] at the end of it is said to be auspicious
One born in the middle of it Will obtain pleasures, there is no doubt. {.
“When one’s youth has passed, As illustrious as the orb of the sun, One may become, in one’s old age, A king rich in pleasures and wealth. {.
“As a king, one would become powerful in the lowlands; This would not be so in other places, so it is told
But there also other people of different types For whom these influences are reversed. {.
“[The next nakṣatras] are said to be The second Āṣāḍhā, the Śravaṇā, And the superior nakṣatra of Dhaniṣṭhā; Together they constitute the sign of the Sea Monster. {.
“This sign is the house of Saturn But is influenced also by other planets
The following horoscope applies on earth Always to the just mentioned nakṣatras: {.
“Those born when night has set in, Either at the end of the first or during the middle watch, Are observed to enjoy Great pleasures in all respects. {.
“Whether born in high or low families, They become rulers over the earth
They are fierce, swarthy, And of dark-bluish complexion. {.
“They have red eyes and are of delicate constitution; They always are valiant and daring
As kings, they may rule countries Surrounded by water. {.
“They may live long lives but have no offspring
Others, for whom the influences are reversed, May experience a lot of suffering. They are regarded as deviations from the norm. {.
“The nakṣatras of Dhaniṣṭhā, Śatabhiṣā, And the first Bhadrapadā Are together parts of the sign That is called Aquarius. {.
“This sign is always inhabited by The best of planets— Different [ aspect s] of the moon and Venus, But not Jupiter. {.
“If a birth under these nakṣatras Occurs at night or in the morning, One’s horoscope will always be excellent
It indicates pure conduct in the world. {.
“One may become involved in cruel rites, But will be described as intelligent
And will enjoy Various pleasures on earth. {.
“Others, whose horoscopes are unfavorable, Will be afflicted by poverty and disease
Now I will describe the nakṣatras Of Bhadrapadā and Revatī. {.} “The sign of Pisces starts In the [latter] part of the first Bhadrapadā
The following horoscope applies Universally to the [nakṣatras of Pisces]: {.
“If one is born at night during the middle watch, Or during the day when the risen sun Is half a watch above the horizon, A little behind the midday point, {.} “Or when it is a short distance from setting, With [about] one cubit left to go, Such a birth is unique
It is very pure And strongly connected with Venus. {.
“The gods from the realm of Brahmā know This sign to be the house of Venus. It is inhabited by yellow And whitish planets
This sign is the sign of good fortune, Righteousness, and supreme virtue. {.
“People born under these nakṣatras Are beautiful in every limb
They are desirous of kingship, very valiant, And steadfastly loyal to their friends. {.
“If they live in the lowlands, They will enjoy long life and great pleasures
If they live in the east, They will always reach an old age. {.
“If they live in an arid country, They might reach an old age, or not 
No fish are ever seen Thriving on dry land
They instead thrive in water; The abode of fish is in water. {.
“Birth under these nakṣatras Is well known to like that, and so is the sign
People born under them Thrive best in the lowlands. {.
“Rulers of the earth who enjoy great pleasures Are always established in the east
The planets considered the best [for them] Are Jupiter and Saturn. {.
“They will help establish a dominion in the east For those born under their influence, there is no doubt
Signs of the zodiac are explained in many different ways, As there are many nakṣatras. {.
“The chief planets fall into three categories. Human knowledge of them Has been accumulated over a long time, not suddenly
There are also fifteen lunar days [in a fortnight]. {.
“A month is said To have thirty days
Its fortnight has fifteen [units of] day and night; A month has two such fortnights. {.} “One year is said to consist Of twelve months
This [yearly] measure of time Is said to delimit the end of the eon. {.
“When the dark eon sets in, The following calculations are done
The human lifespan Is said to decrease to one hundred years. {.
“Such years are said To be comprised of six seasons
Each subdivided into three parts— The first, the middle, and the last. {.
“The lifespan of humans Ranges from long to short in this world
Where unexpected calamities Are known to occur. {.
“[At that time] the nonhuman beings in this world Run and escape in different directions
They are frightened and very scared, And run here and there. {.
“Whenever a war ensues between The prominent gods and asuras, They cause, in the human world, Outbreaks of disease, Comets, meteors, earthquakes, And bolts of lightning. {.
“[At that time] smoke will be seen all around, As well as smoke-tailed falling stars
The orbs of the moon and the sun will appear [At that time] like Kabandha-shaped splinters. {.
“A hole will be seen in the sun And also in the majestic moon
In this way different phenomena will be observed In abundance, occurring repeatedly. {.
“There will be famines and the shortening of life, As well as the breakup of the kingdom
The king will die and religious devotees Will be in great danger. {.
“All the people in that country Will be struck with terror
If an earthquake occurs in the nakṣatras Of Maghā, Aśvinī, or the Punarvasus, {.} “The central regions will be oppressed And the thieves, at that time, will be very audacious
Great kingdoms will be ravished By the people from the south. {.
“If an earthquake occurs During the nakṣatras of Bharaṇī, Kṛttikā, Rohiṇī, or Mṛgaśirā, A great fear and anxiety will set in. {.
“At that time, the kings Who live in the west will die
The barbarians who inhabit The borderlands and live by theft, {.} “And the kings on the Vindhya frontier, Nestled in the valleys, Will also suffer at that time, Weakened by disease {.
“And having their enemies unite against them
People will seek dominance over one another
If an earthquake occurs during The nakṣatras of Ārdrā, {.} “Puṣya, Āśleṣā, or the Phalgunī, Whether it is the first Phalgunī or the second, It will render all the kings volatile, {.
“And wishing To drive each other out. Killings, enslavement, And famines will proliferate. {.
“If an earthquake occurs In this part of the world During the nakṣatras of Hastā, Citrā, Svāti, Anurādhā, or Jyeṣṭhā, {.
“The barbarians from the Himalayas, The brigands who live everywhere, The Khasas and the Droṇis Allegiant to the king of Nepāla, {.} “As well as all the kings, Will turn against one another
All of them eager for battle; There is no doubt about this. {.
“If an earthquake occurs during The nakṣatras of Mūlā or Āṣāḍhā, Whether it is the first Āṣāḍhā or the second, And the ground appears to be moving, {.
“It will affect the eastern people and countries— Pauṇḍra, Oḍra, and Kāmarūpa. The king of Vaṅga will die; There is no doubt about this. {.
“The glorious king of Gauḍa Will engage in hostilities with other kingdoms
He will suddenly either become incapacitated Or die somewhere. {.
“People living by the ocean Or on the banks of the Gaṅgā Will all experience flooding And will suffer from many diseases. {.
“If an earthquake occurs in the nakṣatras of Śravaṇā, Dhaniṣṭhā, Śatabhiṣā, or the Bhadrapadās, Whether the first Bhadrapadā or the second, Or during the Revatī, {.} “If there is a powerful temblor at noon Causing the inhabited lands to sway; If the entire earth shakes Along with its mountains and forests; {.} “If all the celestial bodies, always visible in the sky, Are altered or obscured, Then all the most powerful and wealthy kings Who live in the countries {.} “To the north, the west, The south, and all around— In all the directions— Will turn against one another. {.
“Many beings will die due to pestilence, Starvation, and the dissolution of the kingdom
If the temblor occurs before dawn, When beings experience blissful peace, {.
“And if, a little later, It is followed by a terrifying aftershock, And later still, by another one, It will be deadly for the inhabitants of Magadha. {.
“The inhabitants of Aṅga will suffer, And so will the king of Magadha
[If an earthquake occurs] when the sun ‘Marks’ the afternoon, shortly after midday, {.} “And extends over the entire Surface of the earth, All the religious renunciants Will certainly contract an array of diseases— {.
“They will be afflicted with illnesses Such as fever, severe pain, and tumors. They will suffer for seven days, After which they will improve. {.
“If there is [another] temblor When the sun has moved a short distance, Then the soma-drinking brahmins, The best among the four castes, {.} “Will suffer and perish. The same will happen, without a doubt, To the king’s advisers, religious priests, Ministers, and servants. {.
“The others, such as the prominent vow holders Who know the purview of the mantra system, The brahmins, kṣatriyas, Vaiśyas, and śūdras, {.} “And also the clever, learned men who know The true meaning of sciences and possess the political acumen, Will be attacked, destroyed, Or tormented by diseases. {.
“Those who know the smṛti and the śruti, and thus understand reality, And also those who are familiar with history, Will soon be smitten by disease Just like a tree by lightning. {.
“If an earthquake occurs When the sun sets, And then again after it completely disappears, Or in the afternoon, at the end of the meridian hour, {.} “The beings of the animal realm Will all run helter-skelter
The most prominent people of this world Will perish in this temblor. {.
“If the earthquake occurs During the first watch of the night, A torrential rain will fall, Causing [landslides with] falling boulders. {.
“If the earth shakes Later during the same watch, When this sign is observed A great, rain-filled hurricane will come. {.
“If there is a terrifying earthquake At the end of the [first] watch, It should be known that a hostile army Of the western king will invade. {.
“If an earthquake occurs At the beginning of the second watch, There will be death, disease, invasions by foreign armies, And severe stomach disorders. {.
“Afflicted by the disorders of bile and phlegm, The people will be prone to anger. Agitated, beings will run From one place to another. {.
“If an earthquake occurs Halfway through the second watch, A great wind will arise, Breaking trees and destroying temples {.
“And the tall mountain ridges and peaks. There is no doubt
It will destroy the nice monastery buildings And the temples adorned with gateways. It will swiftly knock down the dwellings Of living beings and animals. {.
“If an earthquake occurs At midnight, The chief and most eminent king In the eastern countries will die— Either the king himself or his son. Such an earthquake also portends famine. {.
“An earthquake that occurs all over the earth In the last watch of the night, Shortly after the middle watch, Portends peace and freedom from disease. {.
“If an earthquake occurs Shortly after midnight, The kings of the swampy central regions Will be afflicted with disease
They will die in terrible pain, Fighting one another. {.
“If the earth shakes during the third watch, This portends the well-being of children
Mosquitoes, wasps, and stinging insects, As well as all robbers, will perish. {.
“An earthquake that occurs before dawn Brings long life, good health, and an abundance of food
[But there will also] be fires In the cities everywhere. {.
“If an earthquake occurs When the sun is rising, All central regions Will be infested with bandits
After seven days The king will die. {.
“Whenever and wherever an earthquake Manifests with great force, At that time and place Good and bad behavior will manifest. {.
“If an earthquake occurs At the same time as a meteorite bursts, The white light of the meteorite Will destroy anything that is crooked or dishonest. {.
“Thus, white meteorites are always Auspicious and bring what is good
Red ones are very frightening, As they portend conflagrations. {.
“Smoke-colored or black ones Portend the death of the king
Yellow ones, brown ones, Or those of mixed color {.
“Portend the rise in activities Of mixed character. This will happen in the place indicated By the bursting meteorite. {.
“If it [bursts] in the center [of the sky], The central regions are indicated
If the sound produced thereby is pleasant, This indicates prosperity and freedom from disease. {.
“A terrible sound will bring unpleasant things to the world, Whereas a sound like a drum will bring what is good
A sound that is frightening or terrifying Indicates famine. {.
“Such are always the applications Of planetary forecasts whenever they occur
One should perform rites for success Whenever the nakṣatras are auspicious. {.
“The nakṣatras of Aśvinī, Bharaṇī, Puṣya, both Bhadrapadās, Revatī, and Anurādhā Are excellent for mantra recitation sessions
In these nakṣatras, the mantras Will be accomplished and will fulfill one’s goal. {.
“The maṇḍala should be drawn In the same nakṣatras with [the same] stars, When the chief planets of the days of the week Glow either yellow or white. {.
“Also, the lunar day should be auspicious, Such as the fifteenth—that is, the day of the full moon. [On that day] one should not travel abroad, But one may draw the maṇḍala. {.
“The kings should plan their journeys For either the first, the third, The fifth, the tenth, the seventh, Or the thirteenth lunar day. Going on a journey on these days is excellent And brings good fortune to all the people. {.
“[On these days], one should not draw the maṇḍala Of any mantra [deities] in the mantra system. The mantras will not succeed on these [days], And are taught to be the cause of obstacles. {.
“A pilgrimage for the sake of homa will be successful When the best planets are joined with the lunar days; Jupiter, Venus, Moon, and Mercury Are superior in all rites. {.
“These four planets are always the best When dwelling in the [right] lunar day
A pilgrimage made [at that time] Here on earth will be successful. {.
“One should opt for the days That are free from ill omens
“During that period, one should Choose only the following twelve muhūrtas:  Śveta and  Maitra, Who are said to be red-eyed; {.} “ Raudra,  Mahendra ,  Śuddha, And the beautiful  Abhijit;  Bhramaṇa and  Bhrāmaṇa, Who are famed for granting good fortune; {.} “ Saumya and  Varada, Famed for granting good fortune; And  Soma and  Varada — These twelve are auspicious. {.
“Many of the muhūrtas, which are known to be thirty, Are said to be auspicious
If rain falls on the tenth lunar day, Or the fourteenth, at night, {.
“During the dark fortnight, at night, One should engage in quick counting, Avoiding the eighth, the twelfth, And the fourth days. {.
“On these [days], Vināyaka In its four emanations will create obstacles
Using the count as follows, The following time units are proclaimed. {.
“ Unmeṣanimeṣa, Or acchaṭā , are [the units of time] that pass quickly
I will now elaborate On the measure of time further. {.
“One hundred acchaṭās, or finger snaps, Are said to be one nāḍikā
Four nāḍikās are called ghaṭikā
Four ghaṭikās are known as prahara. {.
“One day or one night Are each said to be four praharas long
Eight of them together Make one unit of day and night. {.
The duration of ten tālas Is said to make one kṣaṇa. {.
“The duration of ten kṣaṇas Is said to make one muhūrta
According to mantra adepts Four muhūrtas make one prahara. {.
“One should observe these time measures At the three junctions of the day, And apply them accordingly at the time of homa, When seeking accomplishment through recitation {.
“And during the periods of sleep, wakefulness, Bathing, or traveling. The name day ( divasa ) applies To the period of a single day and night. {.
“Fifteen such days are proclaimed To be one fortnight
Two fortnights are one month — So say the fearless ones skilled in calculations. {.
“Then, within six months, Rāhu swallows the moon
The period of twelve months Is known as a year. {.
“Then, the period of twelve years Is called a great year
The dānava lords always bring Unfavorable planetary and stellar influences
In the twelfth year, they bring a mixture Of good and bad things in this world. {.
“If Rāhu, the lord of asuras, Can be seen during a single fortnight Completely obscuring both The moon and the sun, A great armed conflict Will be seen on earth. {.
“This and other such [signs] Should always be applied on every occasion
Many different, terrible obstacles Will be experienced {.
“By the nonvirtuous beings When the end of the eon arrives
If the entire moon is swallowed While in the nakṣatra of Mūlā {.} “And sets at night While [still] eclipsed
Or if it sets during daytime While eclipsing the sun; {.
“If there is an eclipse of the sun Or the moon at midnight
Or if they set frightened By the shadow of the lord of dānavas, {.
“The evil king who lives in the east Will be killed without a doubt
He will be at the risk of death by his own men, Or he will be destroyed by others. {.
“The king of barbarians And his country in the east will be destroyed
So, too, will be the entire population of Oḍra And the king of the Oḍras. {.
“If the sun or the moon Are seen eclipsed in the nakṣatras Of Aśvinī, Rohiṇī, Bharaṇī, or Kṛttikā, {.} “There will be a proliferation of diseases Caused by phlegm, bile, and wind
Other diseases, caused by combinations of humors, Will also affect embodied beings. {.
“If the eclipse happens in the nakṣatras of Maghā Or the Phalgunī—whether the first or the second— A proliferation of various diseases Will be observed in all the children— {.} “Also, if the eclipse happens in the Hastā, Citrā, Svāti, or the Viśākhās. This will happen without a doubt If the moon or the sun are eclipsed in these nakṣatras. {.
“If the sun or the moon Are eclipsed by Rāhu in the east, The kings of Prācya, Lāḍa, Vaṅga, Aṅga, and Magadha Will be seized by pain in the eyes. {.
“Or perhaps their sons will die, Or their wives will be in the danger of dying
Or possibly a war will break out With wicked-minded enemies. {.
“If Rāhu is seen eclipsing The sun or the moon while these planets Are in the nakṣatras of Mṛgaśirā, Ārdrā, The Punarvasus, Puṣya, or Āśleṣā, {.
“The king and the population of Magadha Will be oppressed
The ministers will be at risk of falling ill, And the cities will be held captive with the citizens distressed. {.
“If a total eclipse by the lord of the dānavas Is observed in the nakṣatras of Anurādhā or Jyeṣṭhā, This will affect all the population centers With pandemic outbreaks of disease. {.
“This will likewise bring killing, enslavement, And various afflictions that are hard to bear
The bondage and confinement imposed upon the population By prominent people will increase. {.
“If the disk of the sun is obscured Or the moon becomes red, Invariably indicating the coming of Rāhu ( graha ), In the first Āṣāḍhā, Śravaṇā, Or the second Āṣāḍhā, A famine will follow. {.
“If the moon or the sun is eclipsed In the nakṣatras of Śravaṇā, Dhaniṣṭhā, The first Bhadrapadā, Or Śatabhiṣā, {.} “And it has thus darkened over, One knows that Rāhu ( graha ) has arrived
This will result in severe suffering And famine everywhere. All human habitations will be At great risk from the king’s thieves. {.
“If, in the nakṣatras of Revatī Or the second Bhadrapadā, The bright disk of the moon Is swallowed by Rāhu from the east, Or the disk of the sun, obscured from the west, Is only partially visible, {.} “Every king and lord of Magadha Will lose his dominion
These are said to be the manifestations Of the coming of Rāhu. {.
“The quarters where the sun Or the moon disk is eclipsed Are the ones where, at that time, Good and bad things will occur. {.
“The earthquakes that occur on earth Are said to be indicated by signs
Based on the color of the eclipse, there will be The corresponding good and bad occurrences. {.
“A smoky color is the sign Of a rain that will last for five days
Halfway through it, this will become a matter of concern For the people living in Tīrabhukti. {.
“All the populated places will be destroyed And will become centers of disease
The kings who rule on the northern bank Of the Gaṅgā will perish, {.
“And so will the kings who live, Protected all around, in their forts In the impenetrable recesses of the Himalayas, So difficult to access. {.
“The king of Tīrabhukti, On the northern bank of the Gaṅgā, Will also die, Tormented by grief and tribulations of different kinds
“If the nakṣatras, during which the earthquake occurs, Can be described as hazy, Then within five days All the directions will become filled with smoke. Without any rain, it will be terrible
“People within the range of vision Will not see one another. Human vision will not penetrate there To see one another. {.
“There will be great dangers there That will destroy kings and states That have the karma for this
There will be shooting stars all around, {.} “With terrible double or triple Circles around them
If rainbows appear at night And the wings of crows appear white; {.} “If the color white appears as black And black as white
If the colors of birds and their cries, Particular to the season, are altered; {.
“And if the birds are acting out of character, Wherever this occurs, there will be great dangers there
Also, if the two-legged, four-legged, Legless, and multi-legged beings act out of character, {.
“And if the birds and other animals behave in strange ways, This indicates great danger
If dogs with distended bellies Keep howling again and again, Whether at daytime or nighttime, This indicates great danger. {.
“In places where many such omens Occur in profusion, There will be a drought And the king will lose his royal wheel. {.
“Whatever the birth horoscope of sentient beings, With its good and bad influences, is said to be, The corresponding omens will occur, Bringing, in this life, good and bad results. {.
“Otherwise, if there is no previous cause, No signs will be perceived
Obstacles never happen without a cause, And they arise according to omens.” {.
This concludes the detailed twenty-fourth chapter, on the astrological knowledge of signs, from “The Root Manual of Noble Mañjuśrī,” an extensive Mahāyāna sūtra that forms a garland-like basket of bodhisattva teachings
Lord Śākyamuni once again addressed the planets, the nakṣatras, the stars, and other celestial bodies: {.
“Please listen, all of you, venerable sirs, the planets and the nakṣatras
This sovereign manual of the divine youth Mañjuśrī, which contains ritual instructions on the empowerment and the maṇḍala according to the mantra system, should not be transgressed against. You honored celestial bodies should not obstruct the knowledge holders trained in this supreme manual who engage in the practice of recitation, homa, the observance of rules, and magic. Nor should you hinder the insights gained by the calculations of the behavior ( carita ) of the asterisms and nakṣatras
Instead, you and the hosts of gods should all protect those who engage in the instructions thereof
All the wicked beings should be warded off, restrained, and properly instructed
None of them should be hurt in any way
[Instead,] they should be established in the stages of this doctrine that confers the ten powers.” {.
Lord Śākyamuni then entered the samādhi called the erect uṣṇīṣa of all the tathāgatas in order to keep away all evildoers from every sentient being
As soon as the blessed Śākyamuni entered this samādhi, all the tathāgatas dwelling in the world spheres in the ten directions clearly saw the blessed Tathāgata Śākyamuni in the realm of the Pure Abode and came over to him
They approached with their inconceivable buddha mien, and spoke to the blessed Tathāgata Śākyamuni as follows: {.
“For the good of beings, Please teach, O great hero, The single syllable that can be used instead of any mantra; Teach it along with its instructions as prescribed. {.
“This vidyārāja of great magical power Was taught by all the buddhas
This single syllable is the best mantra For the time of destruction during the lowest eon. {.
“It was taught by all the buddhas As the best of all mantras, The Uṣṇīṣarāja, the great hero Who wards off all spirits. {.
“It restrains grahas, nakṣatras, The evil minded mātṛs, All the obstacle makers, And whatever other evil beings there are in this world. {.
“He, the cakravartin of great power, Who confers benefits and happiness On the beings who recite him, Is the most important [mantra] in this entire teaching {.
“He is Uṣṇīṣarāja of great valor, The supreme lord of everything
Teach him to us, O Tathāgata, If the time is now right for this.” {.
Having said this, the buddhas Fell silent and waited. {.
At that time, the entire congregation of the buddhas and all the world spheres within the great trichiliocosm, with all the living beings and inanimate objects there, became bathed in the same light
Through the Buddha’s blessing, not a single being suffered pain, and a great light could be seen. {.
The blessed Śākyamuni, looking at the entire realm of the Pure Abode
the bodhisattva great beings there, the gods, all the śrāvakas, the pratyeka­buddhas, and the blessed buddhas congregated in this great gathering, then said: {.
“Pay attention, O blessed buddhas and all the pratyeka­buddhas and noble śrāvakas, to this teaching on the ritual of this vidyā cakravartin, the one syllable who resides above the uṣṇīṣa s of all the tathāgatas
He is Uṣṇīṣarāja, the blessed cakravartin, the perfect teacher of infinite power and valor
I will teach his ritual again now, during the lowest eon. I will now, at this time in the lowest eon, say again the mantra of that blessed teacher of the triple universe whose instructions are difficult to find, who is honored by all the gods, nāga s, yakṣa s, gandharvas, asuras, garuḍas, kinnaras, and mahoragas, and who fulfills the goal of every activity. {.} “At the time when the Buddha’s teaching disappears, he—the universal blessed cakravartin Uṣṇīṣa —becomes the preserver of the teaching. He bestows accomplishments. He, a blessed buddha, fulfills the interests of beings during the entire time when the teachings of all the buddhas have disappeared
He, the blessed one, is the preserver in whom the entire Dharma basket of all the tathāgatas is condensed
O venerable hosts of gods and all beings! Please listen! {.
“ Bhrūṁ
“This syllable is the blessed, all-knowing lord Cast by the buddhas into the form of a mantra
He extends himself to all embodied beings As a most compassionate teacher. {.
“He is the glorious lord of mantras, Honored and celebrated as Uṣṇīṣa
A receptacle of compassion, He is merged into and abides as this very syllable
Emanating as the sphere of phenomena, He abides as all forms. {.
“As the bodies of the buddhas Remain for people in the form of relics, They are worshiped in their material form
The immaterial relics, in particular, {.} “Are those of the true Dharma Taught for the sake of people
The material relics, said to be the bodily remains Of the lordly victors, possess great power. {.
“The moon-like sages, who are free from karmic influences, Described different types of relics That issue forth, for the benefit of beings, In either material or immaterial form. {.} “Inseparably infused, out of compassion for beings, With the sphere of phenomena, The sun-like lord of the world Abides in the form of the mantra. {.
“On earth, he is perceived As omnifarious and omniscient
He is the mantra that fulfills all purposes And has been taught by all the buddhas. {.
“This condensed mantra should be recited By oneself according to the instructions
It will accomplish all activities And always bring the desired results. {.
“Its ritual, in its condensed form, Will be taught again at another time, At the end of the eon, when the best of sages, The Tathāgata, has departed
It is said that the ritual and the mantra Will both be accomplished at that time. {.
“Now, the ritual of One Syllable, previously taught at length, will be taught in brief—the ritual of the blessed cakravartin, the tathāgata- uṣṇīṣa who frustrates the activities employed by one’s enemies and conquers the unconquerable ones, the lord of all mantras who is respected by all the buddhas and bodhisattvas, Uṣṇīṣa the cakravartin. {.} “Right from the beginning, in whatever place he is recited, all the evil grahas within the radius of one league will flee
no other mantra, even though it may have been accomplished, is more powerful, and all the gods will depart the vicinity for some other place
He can take away the accomplishments of other practitioners, whether worldly or supramundane, if this were the wish of the practitioner. He can break, destroy, and nail down the mantras employed by others. {.
“If one wishes to break a vidyā of others, one should grasp a handful of green kuśa grass, incant it [with the Uṣṇīṣarāja] one hundred and eight times, and, targeting the vidyā , cut the grass with a weapon. The vidyā will be broken
If one makes an effigy with the same and nails it through the heart, the vidyā will be nailed
If one makes a knot on a safflower-red thread incanted seven times, the vidyā will be bound
If one encloses [the effigy] within an earthenware vessel incanted one hundred and eight times, the vidyā will be arrested
If one slices [the effigy] in two with a weapon through the heart, the vidyā will be broken
If one paints [the effigy], using brown mustard stained red with poison and blood, the vidyā will be chastised
If one strikes [the effigy] with a vine of oleander, the vidyā will be afflicted with pain
One can thus assail any vidyā at will in any way whatever. {.
“Apart from the rites just mentioned, if one performs a homa having bathed in milk, one will attain peace
By offering a homa of ghee, one will bring peace and prosperity to everyone
By making one’s hand into a fist, one can block all mantras
One can then unblock them mentally
If one wants to accomplish a mantra, one can gain mastery of it by first blocking it with the [Uṣṇīṣarāja]
If one wants to accomplish another rite, one can do this with the same [Uṣṇīṣarāja]
With this mantra alone one can summon a deity and also dismiss it
One for whom a protection rite is performed with this mantra will become invincible. {.
“If any mantra does not produce the intended result or carry out the order, it should be recited together with the [Uṣṇīṣarāja]
It will then produce results or fulfill the command
If it does not produce the result or carry out the order, it will die. {.
“One should offer into the fire sesame seeds smeared with curds, honey, and ghee one hundred and eight times, three times a day, for seven days. Then, whatever [deity] mantra one pronounces, that [deity] will come under one’s control. It will carry out whatever task is mentioned and fulfill any command. {.
“If one wishes to enthrall gods, one should offer cedar sticks one thousand and eight times—one will enthrall them within seven nights
If it is nāga s that one wants to enthrall, one should offer into the fire the three sweet substances —the nāga s will become enthralled
If one wants to enthrall yakṣa s, one should offer a dish made of curds— they will become enthralled. One should [also] offer a curd dish if one wants to enthrall a yakṣiṇī. One will enthrall gandharvas with [a homa of] ‘all fragrances,’ or with [a homa of] sticks or flowers of the aśoka or the beautyberry tree. {.
“To enthrall yakṣiṇīs, nāga s, nāginīs, or grahas, one should use brown mustard
One can enthrall a king with a homa of white mustard
a brahmin, with a homa of flowers
a vaiśya, with a homa of curds, milk, and ghee
a śūdra, with a homa of chaff dust
a woman, with a homa of salt
a harlot, with a homa of beans or jambul
and a virgin, with a homa of parched rice
One can enthrall anyone, in any place, with a homa of ghee and sesame oil offered at the three junctions of the day for seven days.
Having said this, the supreme Victor remained silent. {.
The eminent seventh sage Addressed this to the hosts of gods
Smiling, familiar with worldly matters, liberated, With his mind fully controlled, {.
The supreme sage then spoke this To Mañjughoṣa, The senior son of the buddhas, A bodhisattva of great power: {.
“I now have taught the extensive Ritual of the wheel holder — The integrated ritual Of the sagacious lord, the god of gods. {.} “The extent of his rites cannot be expressed Even by the victorious ones
I will teach them further in brief To increase the welfare of human beings.” {.
When this was said, The glorious Mañjughoṣa of great power Supplicated the Buddha, who was staying Above the realm of the Pure Abode: {.
“Please teach! Please do, O most courageous one
You are the perfect buddha, the supreme human being
Teach to bring happiness to humans At the time of destruction at the end of the eon! {.
“What is the most powerful mantra king Of that great hero like
How can the accomplishment of the painting be observed before long? What is the painting procedure?” {.
This concludes the detailed twenty-fifth chapter, on the benefits arising from the cakravartin One Syllable, from “The Root Manual of Noble Mañjuśrī,” an extensive Mahāyāna sūtra that forms a garland-like basket of bodhisattva teachings
At that time Blessed Śākyamuni, looking again at the realm of the Pure Abode, addressed Mañjuśrī, the divine youth
“Listen, Mañjuśrī, to my short teaching on the painting procedure of One Syllable—the cakravartin of great power. This procedure was previously taught at length, but now only briefly. {.
“During this lowest eon beings have little diligence or wisdom, and are rather dull. They would be unable to successfully execute the painting in its extensive version. {.
“Out of my desire to benefit beings I will teach it in a condensed form, So that the reciters [of One Syllable] Accomplish the supreme goal. {.
“If one wants to perform the supreme sādhana, one should paint the Blessed One on an undamaged cloth with untrimmed fringes, shorn to remove loose fibers, using uncontaminated paints
[The Blessed One,] the Dharma king who turns the wheels of Dharma, the supreme lord of all worlds, the best of humans, the most eminent among two-legged beings, the jewel of a tathāgata, the supreme victor by the name Ratnaketu should be depicted teaching the Dharma with a halo of light surrounding him. {.
“Below [ Ratnaketu ] are Brahmā and Vajrapāṇi, and above, holding garlands, two gods. Below there is the practitioner. One should recite [One Syllable] in front of the painting at the three junctions of the day while burning agalloch incense, until one has completed one million repetitions
Afterward one may perform the following rites. {.} “The sādhana of the wheel. “First, if one wants to perform this sādhana, one should construct a twelve-spoked wheel out of ‘flower-metal’ and
during the prātihāra bright fortnight, recite the mantra one million times before the Blessed One, while burning an incense of agalloch, at the three junctions of the day
At the final stage during the full moon, one should prepare many offerings and, holding them up in one’s hands, recite the mantra until the wheel blazes with light
By grasping it, one will become a monarch of vidyādharas
One will fly through space together with those of them who see him, or whom he himself sees. {.
“The sādhana of the parasol
“If one wants to perform this sādhana, one should commission a new, white, bright parasol marked with a golden wheel and adorned with hanging [strips of] silk
According to procedure, one should place the parasol above one’s head and recite the mantra. The vidyā will attend upon one of her own accord
One should recite the mantra in this manner one million times before the Blessed One, at the three junctions of the day, while burning agalloch incense
At the final stage during the full moon, one should prepare many offerings and, holding them up in one’s hands, recite the mantra until [the parasol] blazes with light
When taking hold of it, one will become a monarch of vidyādharas
Doing this during the full moon every month, one will succeed within five fortnights, during the prātihāra fortnight
Once this practice is accomplished, all phenomena will become apparent
One will attain all the [five] superknowledges
One will become a siddha praised by all the buddhas and bodhisattvas, and one will be able to adapt to every being
In the next world, too, one will become a monarch with a retinue of thousands. {.
“The sādhana of Uṣṇīṣa. “If one wants to perform this sādhana, one should make a stick, one cubit long, out of gold, silver, copper, or precious stone. One should then recite the mantra until [the stick] emits light
When one takes hold of it, one will be able to go wherever one pleases and teach Dharma to sentient beings
One will live one great eon. {.
“The sādhana of the auspicious pot. “If one wants to perform this sādhana, one should make a pot out of gold; fill it completely with all types of seeds, jewels, and herbs
cover it with white cloth
and imbue it with magical power by means of the same [mantra]
If one starts in a prātihāra bright fortnight, one will accomplish the sādhana in the next prātihāra fortnight
If one places this pot in one’s hand, one will obtain whatever one wishes for. [The wealth] will be inexhaustible. {.
“The sādhana of the wish-fulfilling gem. “If one wants to perform this sādhana, one should fashion a jewel out of precious gems, crystal, or gold, with a golden handle, and attach to it [strips of] cloth. By this method one will succeed. One will accomplish anything one can think of
By taking hold of it, one will be free of impediments and will surpass in power gods and men 
If one recites the mantra of the blessed [One Syllable] ten million times, one will be able to levitate
One will obtain the body of a god and will live for many great eons. {.
“There are also other chief [uṣṇīṣa kings], starting with Sitātapatra. By incanting [the wish-fulfilling gem] one million times with the mantra of this blessed lord, one will succeed in all the tasks that need to be performed
This inviolable tathāgata- uṣṇīṣa will thus accomplish, before long, whatever he is employed at, even if it involves the rites of other [religions]
“Similarly, one will be able to accomplish anything with one million repetitions of the mantra of the blessed uṣṇīṣa [king] Cakravartin , the lord of all the vidyā mantras. {.
“The sādhana of the vajra. “If one wants to perform this sādhana, one should make a one-pointed vajra from red sandalwood or ‘flower-metal’ and wipe it with the five products of the cow. Then, on the fifteenth day of the bright fortnight, one should lay out before the painting many offerings, light butter lamps, and rinse the vajra with scented water. One will thus enthrall the yakṣa s. {.
“Commending oneself to all the buddhas and bodhisattvas, one should perform the protection rite for oneself and also for one’s assistants within the confines of the maṇḍala, using the mantra of Uṣṇīṣarāja with his retinue, or of Tejorāśi or Sitātapatra
One should take the vajra with one’s right hand and, starting when the first watch of the night has passed and the second set in, recite the mantra with a one-pointed mind until the vajra emits light
As the result, all the vidyādharas, gods, nāga s, and yakṣa s will arrive together
All the vidyādhara kings will arrive too
Praised by them, one will ascend to the abode of vidyādharas and will become their emperor
With the body like that of Vajrapāṇi and a power equal to his, one will be able to ascend, within an instant or a brief moment, to the realm of the Akaniṣṭha gods
Remaining [there] for one great eon
one will behold the noble Lord Maitreya and hear the Dharma
After death, one will be born wherever one wishes to
If so wishing, one will arrive in the presence of Vajrapāṇi. {.
“The sādhana of the sword. “If one wants to perform this sādhana, one should take a sword without any defect and, having fasted for one day and one night, offer worship with many offerings to the Blessed One. One should recite the mantra until the sword blazes with light
Having accomplished that, one will fly through space with one’s retinue
With curly hair and the form of a sixteen-year-old, never discommoding—or discommoded by—any vidyādhara, one will live among them for one intermediate eon. {.
“The sādhana of red arsenic. “If one wants to perform this sādhana, one should purchase some red arsenic in an honorable transaction, fast for three nights when the moon is in the asterism of Puṣya, offer food to the members of the saṅgha, and request their permission
When this has been granted, one should commence the sādhana
One should give many offerings and light one thousand butter lamps
Having fasted for three nights while giving rise to loving kindness for all beings and commending oneself to the buddhas, one should take hold of the arsenic and recite the mantra until one has attained the threefold accomplishment, namely that the arsenic emits heat, smoke, and flames. Whatever one has previously thought of will be accomplished. {.
“If, without losing this accomplishment, one places a bindi on one’s forehead while the arsenic is emitting heat, all the gods, nāga s, yakṣa s, bhūtas, piśācas, and so forth, and all the beings dwelling in Jambūdvīpa, will become one’s servants attentive to orders
One will live one thousand years. {.
“If one places the bindi while the arsenic is emitting smoke, one will become invisible
If one wants, one will be invisible even to gods
One can reappear and again disappear in a single instant
One will become the king of all invisible beings and will live for three thousand years. {.
“[If one places the bindi while the arsenic] is emitting flames, one will become a vidyādhara and will be able to fly surrounded by a retinue
One will become the king of vidyādharas
One will obtain the body of a celestial youth that can’t be harmed even by gods, let alone vidyādharas
One will live for an eon
and when one dies, one will be reborn among the Tuṣita gods. {.
“The sādhana of the trident. “If one wants to perform this sādhana, one should make a trident from ‘flower-metal’ and recite the mantra for one year
One should then build from sand a caitya the size of one cubi
and worship it with many offerings, including a large bali. Holding the trident in one’s right hand, one should recite the mantra while sitting in a cross-legged posture until the trident starts sparkling, emitting thousands of light rays. Subsequently the gods will arrive, headed by Maheśvara
All the vidyādharas will rain flowers
Then, surrounded by them, one will fly up together with all those whom one sees and those that see oneself
Having three eyes, one will become like a second Maheśvara
will be saluted by all the vidyādharas, and will live for one great eon. One will destroy evil-minded beings merely by looking at them
No one in the world will be able to harm one, not even in the realm of gods, let alone among the vidyādharas
When one dies, one will be reborn in Sukhāvatī. {.
“The sādhana of the vetāla. “If one wants to perform this sādhana, one should procure an uninjured human corpse, secure its chest with four stakes of khadira wood and, sitting on it, offer into the fire powdered jewels
A wish fulfilling gem will then appear at the tip of the corpse’s tongue. If one seizes it, one will become a monarch of the vidyādharas
Whatever weapons one thinks of, they will materialize by the power of mind alone
One will radiate light for a distance of one hundred league
and will be able to choose the time of one’s deat
and to go wherever one pleases
Also, in another world, one will be a monarch of the vidyādharas
When one dies, one will be reborn in the Vimala world. {.
“The second sādhana of the vetāla. “One should procure an uninjured corpse, nail it down with stakes of jujube wood, and offer into its mouth a homa of iron filings
The corpse’s tongue will move out. If one cuts it off, one will fly up surrounded by a retinue of one hundred
One will live for one intermediate eon, playing and enjoying oneself on the top of Mount Sumeru
After death, one will become a king of a province. {.
“The sādhana of the goad. “If one wants to perform this sādhana, one should make a goad out of kuśa grass, rinse it with the five products of a cow, and fast for one night
The handle of the goad should be one cubit long. One should make bountiful offerings to Vajrapāṇi and light one hundred butter lamps
One should also make a vajra. In this way one will be protected by Sitātapatra
Tejorāśi should be employed in creating the maṇḍala enclosure on the ground
One should incant the stakes seven times and drive them into the ground on the four sides. Then one should secure the location and build a fence. {.
“Then, during the second watch, one should sit cross-legged and, with a focused mind, offer perfume, flowers, and incense to the goad—this is the rite of protection
Having bowed to all the buddhas and bodhisattvas, one should take the goad into one’s hand and recite the mantra until, as the result, the pain of the hell beings and the gods is pacified
If one then bows to all the buddhas and bodhisattvas, one will fly u
as a king of vidyādharas with a goad in one’s hand and without being obstructed. All the gods, nāga s, yakṣa s, and so forth, seeing one from afar, will bow
One will remain in this condition for one eon
and when one dies, one will be reborn in the Vajra realm. One will behold Vajrapāṇi there. {.
“If one uses the painting as the object of the sādhana, one will become a vidyādhara once the painting emits light
Whatever rite one wants to accomplish, one should recite the mantra of this rite one hundred thousand times, including in the mantra the target’s name
In the end, after one night’s fast, one should offer a large pūjā, light a fire with sticks of the crown flower plant, and offer into it one thousand and eight oblations of sesame seeds smeared with curds, honey, and ghee
At the end of the homa, [the target] will arrive and give whatever wealth one may desire. He will remain enthralled and attentive to orders. {.
“The sādhana of Maheśvara. “If one wants to enthrall Maheśvara, one should worship him in his benevolent ( dakṣiṇa ) form with bountiful offerings
One should light a fire with sticks of the crown flower plant and offer into it one thousand and eight homas
The sound ‘ha ha’ will be heard; one should not be afraid
Maheśvara will arrive and ask, ‘What should I do?
One should reply, ‘May all the vidyā s of Maheśvara be accomplished by me.
Maheśvara will grant whatever boon one may wish for. Saying, ‘May it be so,’ he will disappear. {.
“Similarly, one can summon Viṣṇu, Brahmā, and so forth
Whatever boon one wishes for, one should perform the rite accordingly
This should be done by someone who has performed the protection rite. {.
“The sādhana of the yakṣiṇī. “If one wants to summon a yakṣiṇī, one should offer, while saying her name, oblations of aśoka flowers for seven days. She will arrive and grant a boon
She will certainly arrive on the seventh day. According to one’s wish, she will become one’s mother, sister, or wife
If she subsequently fails to arrive, her head will split
If one wants to summon a nāginī instead, one should follow exactly the same procedure, but use, [instead of aśoka], flowers of cobra’s saffron. {.
“The sādhana of the yakṣa. “If one wants to summon a yakṣa , one should offer a homa of curds and cooked rice for three months
At the end of this period, one should fast for one night and then offer a large pūjā to the Blessed One, and also make a bali offering of rice porridge to the yakṣa s. In one’s mind, one should resolve, ‘I am going to summon the yakṣa s,’ and offer into the fire one thousand and eight sticks of the banyan tree smeared with curds, honey, and ghee
Subsequently, the yakṣa s, including Kubera, will arrive. {.
“One should welcome them with an offering of red flowers
They will say, ‘What can we do for you?’ and should be told in reply, ‘Send me a different yakṣa every single day who will carry out my orders.
They will then provide the yakṣa s, one at a time. One should issue orders to them. They can procure a woman, even if she is one hundred leagues away. In the morning, they will take her back to the place where she belongs. They will provide refreshments also for one’s retinue of one hundred. One can travel wherever one wants, mounted on the back [of a yakṣa ]. One will be brought back [in the same manner]
They will do whatever they are commanded. {.
“The sādhana of Vajrapāṇi. “If one wants to perform this sādhana, one should do the preliminary practice either four or seven times
One should then offer a complete worship with bountiful offerings during the prātihāra bright fortnight right until the full moon
When the full moon pūjā is thus completed, one should feed the monks and all those categorized as saṅgha
To propitiate the noble Vajradhara
one should offer another big pūjā and, when the first watch of the night has passed and the second has set in, one should sit in a cross-legged position and, focused one-pointedly, resolve in one’s mind, ‘I will now behold Vajradhara .
One should then offer into the fire [oblations of] bdellium pills, the size of kernels of the jujube fruit, throughout one watch of the night
At that time the garlands and chaplets of the Blessed One will move, the earth will shake, and thunder will roll through the clouds. All the vidyādharas will rain flowers
While [all this is happening,] Blessed Vajrapāṇi will arrive surrounded by all the vidyā s, headed by the most prominent [among them]; by the vidyādhara kings
and by all the gods, nāga s, yakṣa s, gandharvas, kinnaras, and bodhisattvas. {.
“At that moment, the acute suffering of hell beings will cease
One should welcome Vajrapāṇi with scented water [for the feet], prostrate to him, and stand up
Vajradhara will then ask, ‘What boon shall I give you?’ One can obtain from the Blessed One whatever one wishes for—a universal supremacy over the vidyādharas, the ability to find and enter the passages leading into the subterranean paradises, a kingdom, or the ability to disappear at will
If one wishes, one may become a monarch of the vidyādharas with a vajra body similar to Vajrapāṇi’s. One may procure any article by merely thinking of it
One will remain for one great eon
and when one dies, one will be reborn in the Vajra realm. {.
“In short, the same procedure may also be used for other vidyādharas. The rites that are found in the ritual lore of Vajrapāṇi or Avalokiteśvara, those that have been taught by the Blessed One, those found in the ritual lore of Brahmā or Maheśvara—in short, the sādhanas given previously—will succeed in all the mundane and supramundane rites
The great mantras, if they are not thus made effective, will not succeed. If, however, they are recited as part of this procedure, [the vidyādhara] will make his appearance within seven nights
If he does not, he will perish
If one recites the mantra before the gods headed by Maheśvara, [the vidyādhara] will make his appearance within seven nights
If he does not, his head will split into twenty-one parts. {.
“[The sādhana of substances, etc.] “Ghee, sweet flag, collyrium, sacrificial grass, a wooden staff, the sacred thread, yellow or red arsenic, and so forth can be magically empowered during a lunar or solar eclipse
If one wants to perform the sādhana of the substances, one should take some red arsenic, grind it with human milk, and prepare five pills
One should place them in a box containing agalloch and imbue them with power ( sādhayet ) during a lunar or solar eclipse by adding white mustard seeds. One should then offer a bali
When the mustard seeds make a hissing sound, the first accomplishment has been obtained. With it, one can enthrall all people and accomplish all worldly aims. The [pills’ spirit] will do whatever it is ordered to
If the pills emit smoke, one will become the king of all those able to disappear at wil
and will live for one intermediate eon
If the pills emit light, one will obtain the youthful body of a god and the splendor of a newly risen sun. One will become the king of vidyārāja 
and will live for one great eon
This is the way to perform the sādhana of bezoar, yellow arsenic, and other substances. {.
“The sādhana of collyrium. “If one wants to perform this sādhana, one should blend together antimony-based collyrium, blue lotuses, costus root, and sandalwood, and place the mixture in a copper vessel
Then, during a lunar eclipse, one should recite the mantra until the mixture emits smoke
One whose eyes are anointed with this preparation will become invisible
One will become the king of all those able to disappear at will, oneself being able to assume any form. {.
“The sādhana of the sword. “If one wants to perform this sādhana, one should take an undamaged sword, and lay out before the painting bountiful offerings during the eighth or the fourteenth day of the dark fortnight. One should offer bali according to procedure and, having performed the protection, should grasp the sword with the right hand and recite the mantra until the sword sparkles
If it does, one will become a sole vidyādhara
If, however, it flashes with light, one will become the king of all vidyādharas, with invincible power and valor, and will fly up together with all those whom one sees and those that see oneself. {.
“The sādhana of the vajra. “If one wants to perform this sādhana, one should make a vajra from ‘flower-metal,’ three-pointed at either end and sixteen fingers long, and wipe it with red sandalwood
Then, starting on the prātihāra bright fortnight, one should lay out before the painting many offerings and recite the mantra daily
One should also give food to the monks to nourish them
In the final stage, one should fast for three nights, place the painting in a caitya containing relics, offer a large pūjā, and light one hundred butter lamps
Sitting on a bundle of kuśa grass
one should grasp the vajra with both hands and recite the mantra until the vajra emits light. When one holds this vajra, one will fly up surrounded by a retinue of seve
and become the monarch of vidyādharas with power and valor equal to Vajrapāṇi’s
One will live for one great eon
At the time of physical demise, one will ascend to Vajrapāṇi’s realm. {.
“Similarly, one can magically empower all weapons, such as spears, discuses, arrows, javelins, and so forth, as well as cloth shoes, wooden staffs, and sacred threads, following other procedures
For each of them the accomplishment is threefold. {.
“The rite of pacifying a pestilence. “If one wants to perform the rite of pacifying, one should construct a lotus-shaped altar, light a fire using sticks suitable for sacrifice, and, using the small sacrificial ladle, offer one thousand and eight oblations of sweet rice pudding mixed with curds, honey, and ghee. Within three nights, the pestilence will be pacified for oneself or for one other person
Within seven nights, it will be pacified for the entire village or town
In the event of a pestilence with high mortality, one should offer oblations of sticks of the śamī tree smeared with curds, honey, and ghee
In the event of drought, one should offer oblations of sticks of the udumbara tree smeared with curds, honey, and ghee
If one offers the three sweet things, it will completely pacify any pestilence
In the event of famine, one should recite the mantra three million times. {.
“[Rites for obtaining longevity.] “On the night of the full moon of a prātihāra bright fortnight, during a lunar eclipse, having fasted for three nights, one should incant milk of a black cow one hundred and eight times and drink it, as it has now become an elixir of long life endowed with many qualities
One should offer, over a period of ten nights, one thousand and eight oblations of panic grass sprouts smeared with curds, honey, and ghee
This will prevent untimely death and ensure long life. {.
“Various rites. “One should incant a banner, a conch, or another such item
The mere sight or sound of it will paralyze an enemy army
One should prepare a new jar, completely filled with rice and scented water, and incant it one hundred and eight times. If one sprinkles with the contents someone attacked by vināyakas and then washes them, the person thus consecrated will acquire great fortune and will be free from all their nonvirtue
One can also perform maṇḍala rites and the rites [to control] grahas. {.
“One can remove all poisons with a peacock’s feather incanted one hundred thousand times
Using the same feather, one can cure fever, pain in the eyes, and other diseases
Using [an incanted] thread, one can cure all fevers
By using the mantra in combination with the mudrā, one can smash the magical diagrams of the asuras. {.
“If one offers one thousand and eight oblations of bilva fruit smeared with curds, honey, and ghee, one will obtain enjoyments. {.
“Rites of enthrallment. “If one wants to enthrall gods, one should offer one thousand and eight oblations of agalloch sticks smeared with curds, honey, and ghee at the three junctions of the day for twenty-one days
If one offers oblations of rice grains mixed with curds, honey, and ghee, one’s store of food will never diminish. {.
“When enthralling yakṣa s, one should offer oblations of bdellium pills smeared with curds, honey, and ghee
For yakṣiṇīs, one should use sticks of the aśoka tree
for nāga s, flowers of cobra’s saffron
For the noble Vajrapāṇi, one should use agalloch sticks
for vidyādharas, damanaka twigs
for gandharvas, sticks of agalloch smeared with olibanum oil
To enthrall pretas, one should offer oblations of frankincense
for kinnaras, oblations of pine resin; for vināyakas, oblations of sarja resin
For each of these classes of beings one should offer one hundred and eight oblations for seven days
“To enthrall a king, one should offer, at the three junctions of the day for seven days, one hundred and eight oblations of ‘royal’ mustard seeds smeared with sesame oil
“If one recites the mantra , times while facing the sun, one will be free from all one’s nonvirtue. {.
“Propitiation of vidyā s. “One desiring to propitiate any vidyā should fashion, while living on a diet of barley and cow urine, an effigy of her out of an uśīra root
One should worship it with white flowers, offer one hundred and eight oblations of milk, wash the effigy in milk, and offer incense of agalloch incanted one hundred and eight times. The vidyā goddess will be propitiated
With a single utterance of her vidyā , one’s own protection will be effected
with a double utterance, the protection of other beings
with a triple utterance, the protection of substances. {.
“One desiring to help a vidyā [goddess] who has been broken, crushed, and destroyed by being nailed down with stakes should fashion her effigy out of uśīra root and worship it with white flowers
One should then offer, before the painting of the same Uṣṇīṣarāja, one thousand and eight oblations of ‘royal’ mustard smeared with curds, honey, and ghee
As for the vidyā , she will be freed from the stakes. {.
“If one knows that the vidyā [formula] has been corrupted by bad people, one should write it on birchbark with bezoar [ink] and incant it one hundred and eight times with one’s own mantra
Then, one should offer a large pūjā to the Blessed One and recite [the vidyā ] together with the Blessed One one thousand and eight times
If one goes to sleep right at the place of recitation on a bed of kuśa grass, the vidyā goddess will arrive in one’s dream and tell the missing or superfluous [parts of the vidyā formula]. {.
“The sādhana of the lotus. “If one wants to perform this sādhana, one should fashion a lotus flower out of red sandalwood and offer a large pūjā
After three nights’ fast, one should take the flower with one’s right hand and recite the mantra until the flower emits light
One will then fly up surrounded by a retinue of twenty and become a monarch of vidyādharas
One’s movement will not be obstructed
When one dies, one will ascend to Sukhāvatī. {.
“The sādhana of the one-pronged vajra. “If one wants to perform the sādhana of the vajra, one should make a vajra from clay from an anthill, mixed with sand
Living on alms, observing silence, and acting in a non-threatening manner, one should take hold of this vajra and recite the mantra three hundred thousand times
The vajra thus used must be one-pronged
One should place this vajra nearby among white mustard seeds and keep it there while reciting the mantra until the mustard makes a hissing sound, which indicates that the vajra is now successfully empowered
While holding it, one can accomplish any activity, such as pulverizing mountains; drying up nāga ponds; reversing the flow of rivers
putting the nāga s to flight
removing poison
paralyzing
confusing
or bringing ruin upon any being
destroying magical devices
or arresting the movement of carts and so forth, or turning them to dust
One can perform all this and any other activity. {.
“Nobody can possibly create obstacles for someone doing the practice of the uṣṇīṣa [king] Cakravartin, as one becomes Mūrdhaṭaka in person, if the right procedure is followed, but not without it. During the recitation session, one should always recite the mantra of Buddhalocanā at the beginning and at the end
In this way one will invoke gentle benevolence. One’s accomplishment will become apparent. {.
“[The sādhana of Śrī (Lakṣmī).] “One should descend to a river that flows into the ocean and set afloat as an offering one hundred thousand lotuses. [The goddess] Śrī will arrive and grant a boon; she will grant a kingdom
If one then offers three hundred thousand lotuses, one will become the king of all the land, as well as the supreme monarch of Jambūdvīpa
If one erects the painting before a hole in the ground and recites the mantra three hundred thousand times, all the magical devices [that block the entrance] will fall. One should enter without fear
One should remain there
There will be no danger from Viṣṇu’s discus
Even if the discus makes it inside, it will be turned to ashes by the mere recollection of the mantra
It can be revived by a mere wish
It will never enter again. {.
“[Various rites.] “Starting from the first day of a bright fortnight, one should strike, thrice a day, the big toe of the Blessed One’s foot with jasmine flowers incanted one time until light radiates from the toe and enters one’s own body
At this very moment one’s straight hair will become curly
and one will fly up surrounded by a retinue. One will become the king of vidyādhara
and will live for one eon. {.
“One should erect on the ocean shore the painting facing west, light a fire using sticks of cobra’s saffron, and offer into it one hundred thousand oblations of flowers of cobra’s saffron, dedicating them to the ocean
Waves will arise there
One should not fear such signs of success
they will continue to appear until Samudra himself appears in the guise of a brahmin and says
‘What can I do for you?’ One should reply, ‘Surrender to my control.
He will then do whatever one asks for. {.
“One should draw a thousand-petaled lotus on the ground, sit upon it, and recite the mantra one hundred thousand times. A [real] lotus will grow out of the earth. Being thus lifted up, one will fly up surrounded by a retinue of one thousand
One will become the king of vidyādharas with a lifespan of one great eon
One’s halo will radiate within a five-league radius without causing any alarm [to anyone]. {.
“One should offer, during the prātihāra bright fortnight, one hundred thousand jasmine flowers above the uṣṇīṣa of the Blessed One, reciting the mantra over each and every flower, until a light radiates from the uṣṇīṣa and enters one’s own body
At that very moment one will acquire the five superknowledges
When one has thus incanted and offered one million flowers
if one then recites whatever vidyā one wants to employ along with the mantra of the Blessed One
she will definitely arrive in person while being recited
If she fails to arrive, she will burst at the head and wither away. {.
“This One Syllable is indeed the cakravartin Uṣṇīṣa , a tathāgata in person
Who else could be the tathāgata king of all the mantras and vidyā s in this world with its gods
The most prominent uṣṇīṣa kings in his retinue are Sitātapatra and Tejorāśi
One should employ the same complete sādhana procedure of each of the uṣṇīṣa kings
All the uṣṇīṣa kings can be accomplished by means of this [sādhana alone]
If one desires the supreme accomplishment, one must not employ [him] in the wrong place or time
If one does, the supreme accomplishment will not come
In short, all the gods can be summoned with this [One Syllable]. {.
“[With One Syllable,] one can also unveil a treasure trove. One should go to where the trove is, take a white jar, smear it with ‘all fragrances,’ fill it with water infused with white sandalwood, incant it with the mantra one thousand and eight times, and deposit it where the trove [is supposed to be]. If the trove is there, the earth will burst open
If it is at the depth of a human height, one should sprinkle the area with water—one will be able to grasp it after digging one cubit deep. {.
“If one wants to perform the sādhana of a lion, one should make its effigy from the clay of an anthill, smear it with bovine bezoar, place it on a pedestal, and offer a large pūjā. One should recite the mantra until the lion moves; once it does, the practitioner has accomplished the rite
His hair forming curls like earrings, he will fly up surrounded by a retinue of four, mounted on [the lion’s] back
He will live as long as Brahmā—ninety thousand years—without being interfered with by any of the vidyādharas
The sādhanas of elephants, horses, and buffaloes can be accomplished in the same way
Whenever he utters a lion’s roar, the gods will fall off their seats. {.
“If one goes to a lotus pond and offers one hundred thousand lotuses, one will obtain an entire kingdom
Should one offer one hundred thousand buds of red oleander flowers, one will obtain a king’s daughter
If one offers one hundred thousand jasmine flowers into a river that empties into the ocean, one will obtain whatever girl one desires and will accomplish the highest practices. {.
“Through this mantra of the cakravartin Uṣṇīṣa , wherever one goes, even Indra himself will vacate and offer his seat
All the gods, seeing one at a distance, will become awed and afraid
So spoke Blessed lion Śākyamuni, the lion and the most eminent among men
This concludes the detailed twenty-sixth chapter, with instructions on the ritual procedures of the rites of the cakravartin One Syllable and his painting, from “The Root Manual of Noble Mañjuśrī,” an extensive Mahāyāna sūtra that forms a garland-like basket of bodhisattva teachings
At that time, the blessed Śākyamuni again directed his gaze at the realm of the Pure Abode and the hosts of gods dwelling there, as well as all the buddhas, bodhisattvas, pratyeka­buddhas, and the noble śrāvakas, and once again addressed Mañjuśrī the divine youth: {.
“This complete basket of teachings of all the tathāgatas, O Mañjuśrī, is as illustrious as a wish-fulfilling gem. It is taught in order to make beings into receptacles wherein results will be born
During the lowest eon, at the time when the buddhafield is empty, the tathāgatas are in the state of nirvāṇa and the genuine Dharma tools have disappeared
At such a time, in order to preserve the mantra basket of all the tathāgatas’ teachings, this One Syllable, O Mañjuśrī, taught in this king of manuals of your mantra methods, the manual of the divine youth, will become a shared treasure, which, when recited according to procedure, will fulfill the wishes of all beings
This cakravartin, One Syllable, taught in your king of manuals, constitutes the essential core of the mantra systems of all the tathāgatas and is the most prominent [part of] them
When one recites him, all the tathāgata- vidyārāja s are being recited. {.
“But there is, Mañjuśrī, yet another one-syllable mantra in your king of manuals, taught in the past, that is a treasure of great excellence, the most eminent and precious
In bygone times, as many eons ago as the grains of sand in sixty-two Gaṅgā rivers, there was a tathāgata by the name of Amitāyurjñāna­viniścaya­rājendra, an arhat, a fully realized buddha endowed with the vidyā conduct, a supreme sugata who knows the ways of the world, a leader able to tame people, an instructor of gods and men , a blessed buddha the mere recollection of whom, or hearing whose name, neutralizes even the five acts of immediate retribution
Many beings who merely hear his name will definitely progress toward awakening—how much more is this true for those beings who accomplish his mantra! {.
“It is necessary that all mantra reciters keep in their minds, first and foremost, this blessed tathāgata Amitāyurjñāna­viniścaya­rājendra
They also should say, ‘Homage to the blessed tathāgata Amitāyurjñāna­viniścaya­rājendra, the arhat, the perfectly realized buddha!
After that they should pay homage to Amitābha, Ratnaketu , and all the buddhas and recite the mantras of their choice. They will swiftly obtain accomplishments. {.
“For that reason, if one wants to greatly increase one’s store of merit, one should salute and call out the names of the three tathāgatas and always bow to all the tathāgatas. Always dedicated to the pursuit of awakening, one will complete the accumulation of virtue and henceforth will be counted among the bodhisattvas. One’s mantras will swiftly fulfill their aim. {.
“This single-syllable mantra was taught by Tathāgata Amitāyurjñāna­viniścaya­rājendra, the arhat, the perfectly realized buddha
This mantra, the essence of all the tathāgatas, is cherished in all the mantra systems
It accomplishes all activities. O Mañjughoṣa! This mantra, the most secret in your king of manuals, should be employed by people in utmost secrecy for their own good. {.
“This mantra is not suitable for those Who are not students, do not follow the Dharma, Or have no faith in the teachings of the Teacher, As propagated by the victorious ones. {.} “Nor should this mantra ever be used By the wicked, the arrogant, Or those who find faults in the teachings of the Teache
Or have no faith in the Buddha’s sons. {.} “Nor is it suitable for the śrāvakas or the rhinoceros-like pratyeka­buddhas, Who are unable to accept and adopt worship. The mantra should not be given to them
As they would not see success. {.
“On the other hand, one who has trust, is gentle, Has faith in the teachings of the victorious ones, Always [acts like] a bodhisattva, And embraces worship wholeheartedly {.
“Will accomplish the mantra Taught by me in this manual
The great one-syllable mantra Prescribed by Mañjughoṣa. {.
“This mantra that brings happiness Has been given by him, the lord of the world
It is the essence of all the buddhas And the source of all the mantras. {.
“The self-arisen [lord] formerly taught, For the benefit and welfare of beings beguiled by evil, Seven hundred and sixty Million mantras. {.
“All of these mantras have gone back to their origin And abide in the image of the Teacher
This very powerful vidyārāja , however, The profound essence of these mantras, Remains ever active, Contained within the single syllable. {.
“The ultimate essence of the teachings of the buddhas Is thus preserved for the benefit of the world, Being stored in this Dharma device, This single syllable. {.
“This one-syllable mantra accomplishes all aims
It can ward off hostile kings, Perform a variety of activities, And accomplish all rites. {.
“It can thus perform without fail One thousand and eight activitie
And bestow various benefits If employed in a rite as prescribed by the rule. {.
“The letter m , included in this mantra, Is the heart essence of Mañjuśrī
The letter u was set to function in this world As the ever-omniscient [Mañjuśrī], aware of the modes of life. {.
“[This] definitive meaning Was taught by Amitāyurjñāna­rājendra And conferred by the Buddha upon Mañjughoṣa To endow him with the power to enthrall. {.
“This mantra, at the end of the eon in this world, When the Teacher is in nirvāṇa, Swiftly brings accomplishment, If the rites are performed according to rule. {.
“There is a place called Amitāyus, ‘Infinite Life,’ Designated as a buddhafield
It is there that this blessed buddha, The turner of the wheel of Dharma, {.} “Remains throughout infinite eons, Blessing that field with his lifelong presence
This is why his name is Amitāyurjñāna­viniścaya, ‘Expounder of the Knowledge of Infinite Life.’ {.
“This tathāgata with great miraculous power Is the king of kings of all the worlds
He gave this eminent, excellent mantra To the Buddha’s son of great intelligence, {.
“The most senior among [the Buddha’s] foremost sons, Distinguished by great strength and miraculous power
This son, in turn, entrusted This mantra to Samantabhadra. {.
“This buddha son, in turn, Gave it to Mañjughoṣa. Now I, a tathāgata, will pronounce [This mantra]—the best [part of] his ritual.” {.
This foremost of [Mañjughoṣa’s] mantras Was then pronounced by the Dharma king. He spoke this mantra for the benefit and welfare Of all sentient beings: {.
“Homage to Tathāgata Amitāyurjñāna­viniścaya­rājendra, the arhat, the perfectly realized buddha
Homage to all the buddhas, starting with Śālendra­rāja, Amitāyus, Amitābha, and Ratnaketu
After saluting them, one should recite the one-syllable mantra thrice
What is this mantra
“ Muṁ. {.} “It is this mantra, friends, that was taught by Tathāgata Amitāyurjñāna­viniścaya­rājendra, the arhat, the perfectly realized buddha who dwells in the world sphere Amitavyūhavatī
He passed on [this mantra] to the eldest and closest son of all the tathāgatas, the bodhisattva great being Mahā­sthāma­prāpta, in order to bring benefit, welfare, and happiness to all beings. He did this out of compassion for and in order to benefit many people, especially the future generations at the time when [the Buddha’s] teaching would disappear, knowing that such a time would come. He did this in order to rein in the wicked kings who would transgress against the Three Jewels during the last, lowest eon. {.} “[Mahā­sthāma­prāpta,] through the Buddha’s blessing, passed on [this mantra] to Samantabhadra
Bodhisattva Samantabhadra, the great being, passed it on to Mañjuśrī, the divine youth
Mañjuśrī, the divine youth, out of his kindness for all beings and the power of his compassion, then placed this mantra in his heart, in his own body. {.
“Thinking about the future time, when the Buddha’s teaching disappears during the lowest eon, I will be the last tathāgata
During that debased time, the lowest eon, this excellent mantra will effectively protect my teachings. {.
“I will now teach the ritual of this [mantra]. Listen, Mañjusvara, O divine youth with a pleasant voice, to the detailed instructions on the great ritual of your [mantra]
I will [now] teach at great length the king of rituals [that employs] this [mantra]. {.
“To start, one should climb a mountain and recite the mantra two million times; this constitutes the preliminary practice
One should recite while living on a diet of milk dishes, observing silence, focusing the mind on the mantra and nothing else, fully embracing the triple refuge, generating bodhicitta, observing [the prescribed fasts] and the precepts of morality, and fully embracing the conduct consistent with the bodhisattva vows. After this, one can commence the rites. {.
“First, one should commission a painting. This should be done in a clean place by a painter who is observing the ritual fast, using uncontaminated paints and a clean piece of either cloth or silk suffused with sandalwood, camphor, and saffron
The painter himself must be clean, eat the three white foods, and wear clean clothes. He should be requested to paint during an auspicious nakṣatra, on the fifteenth day of the bright fortnight when the moon is perfectly full, [starting] at sunrise and [continuing] until midday. He should avoid [painting] past [midday]
He should continue in this way day after day until the painting is finished. {.
“On the canvas, one should first paint the world called Amitāyurvatī
On a cloth measuring one cubit, or a square piece of silk one width of the Buddha’s hand across, one should paint Amitāyurvatī, adorned below with mountains consisting of ruby, sapphire, and emerald
with palaces upon them embellished with fine jewels and adorned with raised flags and banners. {.} “In the center, one should paint Tathāgata Amitāyurviniścaya­rājendra, sitting on a jeweled throne [supported by] lions and expounding the Dharma
He is surrounded by a halo of light, and has a pure, pink complexion. {.
“To [Amitāyurviniścaya­rājendra’s] left, one should paint the bodhisattva great being Mahā­sthāma­prāpta, sitting on a seat of precious stone, holding forth in his [right] hand a yak-tail whisk, and directing his gaze at the tathāgata. In his left hand he is holding a citron
His body, adorned with all the ornaments, is of the light purple color of beautyberry and is surrounded by a blazing halo of light. {.
“To [Amitāyurviniścaya­rājendra’s] right, one should paint the bodhisattva great being Blessed Samantabhadra sitting on [a seat of] precious stone, waving a white yak-tail whisk held forth in his [right] hand. In his left, he is holding a jewel
He is adorned with all the ornaments and wears a crown blazing with jewels
His body color is that of the light purple beautyberry. He is wearing short trousers of blue silk and a pearl necklace, is invested with a jeweled sacred thread, and is surrounded by a halo of blazing light. {.} “To [Samantabhadra’s] right, one should paint Noble Mañjuśrī, the divine youth, with his head adorned with five locks of hair, wearing the ornaments of a boy-child, and of golden complexion
He is wearing short trousers of blue silk, a pearl necklace, and a sacred thread adorned with various jewels
His gaze is directed at Tathāgata [Amitāyurviniścaya­rājendra], and he is smiling slightly
His beautiful form is of a peaceful aspect
He should be painted endowed with all the supreme features and with his hands folded together. {.
“Below [Samantabhadra], one should paint the practitioner in his usual form and bearing his distinguishing marks. He should be painted in the furthermost corner of the canvas, kneeling down, with his head bowed forward. {.
“Above Blessed [Amitāyurviniścaya­rājendra], one should paint four blessed buddhas
to the right, Amitābha and Puṇyābha and above on the left the other two tathāgatas, Śālendra­rāja and Ratnaketu . They all are surrounded by halos of blazing light, have golden complexions, and are endowed with all the supreme features
Bestrewn with all kinds of flowers, they sit on identical lotus seats in cross-legged posture
Peaceful in appearance, they expound the Dharma. {.} “Above Blessed [Amitāyurviniścaya­rājendra], one should paint Sunetra with the body of a tathāgata, flying among the clouds and raining down flowers
He is endowed with all the supreme features and surrounded by a halo of blazing light
With his right hand he shows the boon-granting gesture and, with his left, he is holding the corner of his robe. {.
“This is the painting procedure of the blessed tathāgata Amitāyurviniścaya­rājendra, the arhat, the fully realized buddha. And the one-syllable mantra [given before] is his mantra
This mantra is equal to an uṣṇīṣa king, a cakravartin; it is equal to him in courage and power
It has great magical efficacy and power, and a mighty array of inconceivable qualities. {.} “In short, this mantra will accomplish, just like the tathāgata- uṣṇīṣa king, the great Cakravartin , all the rites that have been taught in detail for One Syllable
This mantra will accomplish these rites through mere recitation even when it has yet to be fully mastered, let alone when it has been
It will bring whatever result is desired
Through merely seeing the painting, whatever is pleasing to the mind will come true
and one will definitely be on course toward awakening. {.
“Through the blessing of Blessed Amitāyurjñāna­viniścaya­rājendra, this mantra is said to be the heart essence of all the tathāgatas
it is said to be the uṣṇīṣa king of all the tathāgatas
it is said to be the cakravartin
and it is said to be the great king of cakravartins
It is also said to be the heart essence of Mañjuśrī, the divine youth
It is called One Syllable
In short, its power is inconceivable because the Buddha’s blessing is inconceivable, and so are his miracles. {.
“One may not have fully mastered the One Syllable or performed the preparatory rites. One may have to do all the house chores, may eat everything [including] wine and meat, or indulge in sex
If, however, one has no faith and has not developed bodhicitta, the accomplishment will not be won
Similarly, those that offend against or harm the followers of the Three Jewels will not accomplish even a minor rite, let alone obtain a middling or supreme accomplishment
Those who predominantly pursue sexual and culinary pleasures can fulfill them by engaging in minor activities with over one thousand and eight rites
What are these rites? {.
“At the beginning, one will effect self-protection with a single recitation
A double recitation will protect others
With three recitations, one will effect ‘great protection,
whereby not even a great bodhisattva established on the tenth level would be able to disturb one, not to mention other beings. {.
“If one ties around one’s hips a five-colored thread incanted four times, one will arrest the semen, so that no emission will occur during one’s sleep unless one wants it to
If one is content being alone, whether by day or by night, one should do [the arresting] every day
If not, one can instead incant ashes seven times and sprinkle one’s abdomen—the semen will be arrested for three weeks
If one incants [the ashes] five times while contemplating Lord Buddha, the person whom one besprinkles with it will become enthralled. {.
“During a lunar eclipse when the moon disk has disappeared, one should light a fire with sticks of the crown flower plant and, even if one does not use the painting, offer ten thousand oblations of ghee while facing east
One should perform this homa near the place where the king lives—by a river close to the royal palace, or by a temple, but not inside it
In the morning the king will be enthralled and do whatever he is told
If, at the time, he does not grant an audience, he will become downcast or slow, and will be unable to concentrate. {.} “If this happens, one must follow up with a countermeasure
one should offer one thousand and eight oblations of milk at the first opportunity. From then on, the king will be well again
One must not target with this rite those who have faith and trust in the Three Jewels or who have given rise to bodhicitta
If one were to target them, one would accumulate an enormous amount of nonvirtue
One can only target others who are miscreants
One should show oneself every day to the wicked-minded and impetuous; they will become gentle
If they do not, they will be separated from much wealth and left with nothing but their living breath. {.
“There is also the following rite. At the time of a lunar eclipse, one should light a fire with sticks of the dhak tree and offer one thousand and eight oblations of ghee
In the morning, the king of the country will accept advice on matters that require consultation
One will be able to point out to him what is right to do
If one instructs him, he will donate, within six months, a village capable of providing one thousand alms of food
If one does the above homa for half a night, one will obtain the village within three months
if one does the homa throughout all the watches of the night, within one month
If one does the homa every night for one month, one will obtain a district
or a village equal to a district, or another domain with some wealth
One will not have any enemies
should enemies appear, one should do the rite again. {.
If one’ enemies are brahmins, one should offer one thousand and eight oblations of dhak sticks smeared with curds, honey, and ghee, an
after that, one thousand and eight oblations of neem tree leaves, smeared with white mustard oil
In the morning the brahmins will be appease
and the king will cease to be hostile. {.} “There is also the following rite
At the time of a lunar eclipse, one should light a fire of whatever sticks are available and offer one thousand and eight oblations of ghee. At the end of the homa, one should throw the ashes in the direction where the king lives
he will become enthralled
He will grant in abundance whatever enjoyments, and at whatever time, one desires, including his [personal] assistance
He will donate a small, medium, or large village or district
Within six months, one will certainly obtain an unfailing ( amogha ) accomplishment. {.
“If a member of any of the four castes develops a cruel disposition, then, regardless of whether he is of a degraded or an elevated status, or is a devotee of other deities or worldly beings, if one casts the ashes in the direction where he lives, he will be driven from his home to another country
He will feel uneasy and escape at night, or his family will be destroyed
To undo this, one should offer one thousand and eight oblations of milk; [the target] will become well. {.} “There is also another rite. It should be performed during a lunar eclipse following the same procedure, before a painting depicting the buddhas and the bodhisattvas, before a holy scripture, or before a caitya containing relics, by a practitioner who is clean, wears clean clothes, and has fasted for one day and one night on water free of living organisms
He should fumigate the place [for the rite] with an incense of camphor, fragrant dried flowers, sandalwood, and saffron. {.
“If the rite is performed on account of enemies who are brahmins, one should light the fire with sticks of the dhak tree
if they are kṣatriyas, with sticks of the bodhi tree
if they are vaiśyas, with sticks of the cutch tree
if they are śūdras, with sticks of some other tree. One should then undertake the rite proper
The sticks to be offered in the homa for the brahmins should be of the dhak tree; those for the kṣatriyas, of the bodhi tree; those for the vaiśyas, of the cutch tree; those for the śūdras, of devil’s horsewhip, or another tree as available. The homa rite should be performed using ghee. {.
“Similarly, for a homa on account of an important king, one should offer one thousand and eight oblations of the root of butterfly pea and the same number of the oblations of ghee
At the end, one should throw the ashes in the direction where the wicked-minded king lives
or from where he will arrive
One may, in addition, form the mudrā of the one-syllable uṣṇīṣa cakravartin, or the utpala mudrā
The king will become frightened and will turn back, or his army will fall, or another unexpected calamity will befall him
He may be struck by disease, develop mental problems, or have his words refuted. {.
“There are these and other rites—any that one may wish for
If one incants clothes and wears them, one will become very prosperous
If one incants [collyrium] and anoints the eyes, one will be loved by all people
If one incants the eyes and one’s entire face seven times and then looks an angry person in the face, they will become enthralled and peaceful
If one incants seven times a fruit, a flower, or anything with a pleasant smell, and then offers it to the king, he will become enthralled through merely smelling it
Any other being will become enthralled through merely seeing it
If one suffers from pain in any limb, one should wash it with warm water incanted one hundred and eight times
one will become well again. {.
“These rites should not target Beings that are afflicted by suffering, Those without a protector, the morally fallen, the weak, Or those who observe vows in this tradition. {.} “Rites of this kind should not target Those who have faith in the Three Jewels
They should not target women, The young, the old, or those who are sick. {.} “Likewise, they should not target The destitute, the suffering, The insignificant, or those of inferior birth
They should target beings of stature, {.
“Such as warriors, the impetuous, the greedy, Those with a large following or much wealth, The haughty, or the violent. It is them that such rites should target. {.} “Also, those who hate the teachings; The cruel; those who steal others’ property, Who have no trust in any mantras, Remedies, or yogins; {.} “And also impudent ones with wicked minds, Or kings despised by the subjects— It is them that the rites should target, Not those who are righteous. {.
“The following rite is said to be forbidden By the buddhas [to target the righteous]
If the reciter casts the ashes, With an angry mind, in a particular direction, {.
“Any cruel enemies who are there Will perish along with their king
All the people there will inevitably Suffer from a long-term exhaustion, {.
“And terrible, deadly plagues Will be seen in that place
However, one should not perform [such] rites, Lest one also falls into distress. {.
“After three weeks all the people And kings there will perish
Once the rite takes full effect, One should terminate it within fourteen days. {.
“In the first [week, the target] will become mentally disturbed
In the second, they will become exhausted
And in the third, they will die
that is why One should avoid [continuing the rite beyond the second week]. {.
“In the first week, they will flee
In the second, they wander throughout the country
In the third, they perish
One should not perform such rites. {.
“These rites have been designated by the guides of the world To be solely for the purpose of guiding beings
Because the buddhas, having pure minds, Do not resort to violent means. {.
“All the buddhas abhor The rites that obstruct the life force
No reciter should do such rites, If he desires supreme accomplishment. {.
“One indulging in such wantonness Will only see one’s own fall into hell
This has been described as the ripening Of one’s solely black karma (the result of solely black rites). {.
“As observed by the most eminent among two-legged beings, The diversity and efficacy of rites (karma) Always makes the arising of virtue possible
Black rites of the [practitioner] can still produce virtuous results. {.
“Accordingly, the karma is mixed And is taught as such
This is why such a variety of rites Have been taught by those who know reality. {.
“The reciter should avoid Black or mixed rites (karma)
But rely on the auspicious white ones
Which will bring the karmic results of good karma (activities). {.
“Through destroying life
The reciter will end up in hell again and again
Desisting from it, which is the practice of ahiṃsā, Is the supreme activity (karma). {.
“Mastering the mantras Leads to paradise and happy rebirths
Which are obtained through skillful rites (meritorious karma
And blocked by the rites (karma) that are (is) their (its) opposite. {.
“I have explained Dharma and non-Dharma
Differentiated ( viceṣṭita ) based on omniscient knowledge
If the reciter desires accomplishment, He should always perform virtuous rites (create good karma). {.
“When virtue is present, The mantras of the practitioner will be successful
If he is dedicated to white rites (to accumulating good karma), His liberation is guaranteed. {.
“The tathāgatas proclaim that, for a mantra practitioner, Accomplishment is obtained through virtue
For guiding ordinary beings, though, They teach different types of rites. {.
“One may accomplish, if one so desires, One thousand and eight rites
Still, if one performs inferior rites, One will not obtain the highest accomplishment. {.
“By putting effort into the recitation and the homa, One will obtain a middling accomplishment
The inferior accomplishment will be won swiftly If the rite is [simply] performed according to procedure. {.
“The rites (karma) have been taught To be of three types—supreme, middling, and inferior
A superior reciter who is an ascetic Will obtain the supreme. {.
“A middling reciter will obtain Success in the middling (will accumulate middling karma)
An inferior reciter will always Be limited to inferior rites (accumulating inferior karma). {.
“He will win an inferior accomplishment; He cannot attain any other
The recitation synchronized with the homa Is again of three types. {.
“Superior accomplishment results from superior recitation, The middling is seen as the result of the middling
And the inferior accomplishment is obtained If the rite (karma) is minor and inferior.” {.
This concludes the detailed chapter with instructions on the ritual procedures for the rites of the one-syllable root mantra—the heart essence of Noble Mañjuśrī—that include the painting, twenty-seventh in “The Root Manual of Noble Mañjuśrī,” an extensive Mahāyāna sūtra that forms a garland-like basket of bodhisattva teachings
Now the blessed Śākyamuni looked again at the realm of the Pure Abode and said this to Mañjuśrī, the divine youth
“There is, Mañjuśrī, in your ritual a painting procedure—a sādhana aid that accomplishes all activities
The ritual performed in front of this painting should employ the aforementioned one-syllable heart mantra, or the six-syllable mantra that ends with ma , or your six-syllable root mantra that starts with oṁ , or the one-syllable mantra. This king of rites will become the means of protection in the future time, when I, the Tathāgata, am in parinirvāṇa and the buddhafield is empty—at the time when the lowest eon has arrived, and the world is without protection or refuge, and with nothing to resort to
This king of rites will then become the refuge, the succor, the place of rest, and the final resort
“To begin, one should draw Blessed Śākyamuni just as before, on an undamaged cloth that is shorn to remove loose fibers, seven cubits long and three cubits across, with a fringe, and infused with the essence of saffron and sandalwood
He is sitting on a lotus seat and expounding the Dharma, while looking at the divine youth Mañjuśrī
On his right, one should draw Sudhana, Subhūmi, the noble Akṣayamati, and Mañjuśrī, all of them bowing to the Blessed One
Each of them has the form of a divine youth with limbs adorned with all kinds of jewelry
On his left, one should draw Samantabhadra, the noble Avalokiteśvara, Bhadrapāla, and Suśobhana. {.
“They should all be painted smaller than the Blessed One
Avalokiteśvara and Sudhana should be painted with yak-tail whisks in their hands
Below the Blessed One, Vasudhā should be drawn with a basketful of jewels in her hand and the upper half of her body emerging from the earth
Two vidyādhara youths adorned with garlands, and clouds releasing rain and lightning, should be painted above the Blessed One
All the bodhisattvas hold flowers and jewels and look at the Blessed One’s face. They should be painted adorned with all types of jewelry, looking peaceful and happy, with the upper half of their bodies inclined in a sitting position. {.
“One should place the painting near to a caitya containing relics and recite the syllable of Mañjuśrī one hundred thousand times while facing west
One should carefully observe the vow of silence, bathe three times a day, use three pieces of clothing, and continually fast, eating dishes of vegetables and barley and whatever has been obtained as alms
One should divide the food into four parts and offer one part to the Three Jewels, one part to Mañjuśrī, one part to all beings, and use one part oneself
Not weakened in one’s body, one should visualize the Blessed One and, with the mind focused on all beings, recite the mantra while contemplating, ‘May I never do anything for my own sake, but always for the sake of all beings.’ {.
“One should offer water for bathing, fragrances, flowers, incense, a bali, and lamps
placing the water in the painting’s shadow, the fragrances below the painting, and the flower and bali articles all around
One should first offer these things to the Three Jewels, then to Maitreya, and immediately after to Avalokiteśvara, Noble Samantabhadra, Noble Ākāśagarbha, Noble Akṣayamati, the divine youth Candraprabha, Sarva­nīvaraṇa­viṣkambhin, Noble Vajradhara, Noble Tārā, Noble Mahāmāyūrī, Noble Aparājitā, and Blessed Prajñāpāramitā
First one should offer all of the fragrances, flowers, incense, and the bali articles to those [just mentioned], and then to the painting. {.
“Afterward, at some place outside, using clay from an anthill, one should make figurines of all the vināyakas in the form of camels, donkeys, dogs, and elephants, and offer everything to them
One should remember to avoid oil-seed cakes, cakes made of pounded sesame seeds, horse gram ( kulattha ), fish, meat, root vegetables, and eggplant. Vessels made of lotus leaves or bell metal should also be avoided. {.
“One should practice the recollection of all the buddhas while sitting and resting on a bundle of kuśa grass. Mantra recitation should be performed mentally
One should prepare a bed in some other secluded place overspread with kuśa grass
One should avoid taking too much food or drink, or going out, seeing people, or sleeping too much
One should thus contemplate the buddhas three times a da
and ensure the retention of semen
One should not disclose one’s auspicious dreams to anyone but offer them instead to the Blessed One. {.
“Proceeding on, one should speedily recite the One Syllable one hundred thousand times
At the end, one should read aloud [the text of] the blessed Prajñāpāramitā 
At the time of recitation one should look at the face of Blessed One or the divine youth Mañjuśrī and recite without mixing up the syllables or words
[Each time] one reaches the end of the rosary, one should bow [to them] and offer [oneself to the deity]
Having, in this manner, completed the preliminary practice, one should install the painting in some good place, where one will be able to do the [main] rite in a happy frame of mind.
This concludes the instructions on the painting procedure. {.
“Subsequently, one should fashion out of white sandalwood [an effigy of] Blessed Mañjuśrī sitting on a lotus seat, with the text of the blessed Prajñāpāramitā in his left hand and, in his right, a fruit
One should install the effigy facing west in a secluded, clean place and dig a fire pit in front of it
The pit should be, for all rites, square and two vitastis across. At the bottom, one should place the fragrances and all kinds of grain and make [the fire] above it
Following this procedure, one should start a new fire, using sticks of the bodhi tree or aśoka tree. One should procure ghee, rice grains, boiled rice, milk, curds, and honey
and place all of it together in a copper bowl. Having incanted it one thousand and eight times, one should perform the complete homa. {.
“Later, on another day, starting during the bright fortnight, one should perform the following rite
One should make the fire using bodhi tree sticks and, seeing that the fire is without smoke, one should summon the god of fire
“ Come! Come, O tawny-yellow one! One with a flaming tongue and red eyes! Give, give generously, O tawny-yellow one! Svāhā! {.
“With this mantra, one should offer three oblations, and then summon Blessed Mañjuśrī with the mantra
“ Come, come, O divine youth! Please help me as I strive for the welfare of all beings! Take these fragrances, flowers, and incense! Svāhā! {.
“Whatever one offers, one should offer with this [mantra]
When the Blessed One arrives, one should present him with a welcome offering consisting of water with fragrant flowers and later perform a homa rite
One should offer only one oblation incanted seven times
In this way, one should gratify him with ghee, rice, sesame, and barley for seven days
At some point during this period one will certainly see Noble Mañjuśrī in the form of divine youth. {.
“One should offer one thousand and eight oblations of sticks of sandalwood, two fingers long. If one does this every day, one will enthrall one hundred princes. If one offers one hundred thousand flowers of royal jasmine, one will enthrall a king
If one offers one thousand lotuses smeared with curds, honey, and ghee, one will obtain power substances
If one lights a fire of śamī sticks and offers into it sesame seeds, one will become an owner of great wealth
If one always gets up early and offers oblations of water into water, one will become dear to all the people
If one offers one hundred thousand oblations of sticks of the crown flower plant smeared with curds, honey, and ghee, one will obtain a village [able to provide] one thousand alms rations
If one offers oblations of fenugreek, one will obtain whatever virgin girl one desires
If one offers [sticks of] devil’s horsewhip, one will pacify any pestilence. {.
“If one lights a fire with sticks of a tree rich in sap and offers into it one hundred thousand oblations of sesame, one will obtain whichever girl one wishes for. If one desires sensual pleasures, one should offer one hundred thousand lotuses, and one will obtain them
By offering one hundred thousand oblations of barley, one’s food supply will become inexhaustible
If one offers oblations of bdellium and beautyberry together with ghee, one will obtain a son
If one offers royal jasmine flowers into the water where the crown flower plant [grows on] the bank, one will obtain a village within seven days
If one offers into the water royal jasmine flowers one by one, one will enthrall any person to whom one gives the remaining fragments to smell—the enthrallment will happen through merely smelling them
If one recites the mantra, having put in one’s mouth some saffron, musk, and cloves, the person that one subsequently engages in conversation will become enthralled. {.
“If one puts in one’s mouth some black pepper [seeds], having incanted them one thousand and eight times, one’s words will be endearing even though one may be angry
If one ties these [seeds] into one’s topknot, one will become invisible
If one looks at an enemy and keeps them in mind, the [enemy’s] anger will depart. {.
“If one recites the mantra continually, one will be loved by all people
If one gets up very early and offers water with [the petals of] royal jasmine flowers, [spilling it] onto a clean place on the ground, one will become a minister whose words cannot be challenged
When fear arises, one should bring to mind [the mantra], and the fear will go away
If one looks at the face of an angry person while engendering and sustaining loving kindness, their anger will depart. {.
“One should offer a homa consisting of all flowers with nice fragrance. Whoever one does this for will become enthralled
If, early in the morning, one drinks water incanted seven times, one will purify the imminent experiences of [ripening] karma
If one washes one’s face with water incanted seven times, one will be loved by all people
Whomever one gives incanted flowers to will become enthralled. {.
“By offering one hundred thousand oblations of [incanted] rice grains, one will become an ācārya
If one does the same with sesame seeds, one will obtain dominion over a district
If one offers one thousand lotuses, one will obtain one thousand dinars
If, on every fifth lunar day, one offers an oblation of bdellium, sarja resin, myrrh, and pine resin, all obtained in a fair bargain and blended together, one will obtain, when six months have passed, one thousand times more. {.
“One should make an effigy of the desired person out of ‘all fragrances,’ chop up its foot with a sharp, single-bladed weapon, and offer the bits as oblations. If the target is a man, one should chop the right foot; if it is a woman, the left
One will thus enthrall whoever one desires. {.
“If one offers oblations of thorn apple flowers for seven days, three times a day, one will obtain cattle
Similarly, if one offers sticks of the crown flower plant, one will obtain grain
With flea tree flowers, one will obtain horses
with aśoka flowers, gold; with vyādhighātaka, clothes
One can obtain anything one desires with oblations of royal jasmine flowers
Whatever are the colors of the flowers that one offers into the water at sunrise, one will obtain clothes of the same colors
If one does alms rounds with a bowl incanted seven times, one’s supply of alms will never wane
If one gets up at night and incants one’s own body, one will have auspicious dreams. {.
“If one wants to enthrall a king, one should obtain some dust from his feet, mix it with mustard and sesame seeds, and offer this as an oblation for seven days, three times a day. The king will become enthralled
If one wants to enthrall a queen, one should blend together sochal salt, dill, and yams, and offer this as an oblation for seven days, three times a day. She will become enthralled
If one wants to enthrall a royal minister, one should make his effigy out of cashew nut, sesame, and sweet flag, and perform the homa for seven days, three times a day. He will become enthralled
If one wants to enthrall the family priest, one should blend together tubeflower and dill and offer this as an oblation for seven days, three times a day. He will become enthralled. {.
“If one wants to enthrall brahmins, one should offer oblations of milk blended with ghee. All of them will become enthralled
If one wants to enthrall kṣatriyas, one should offer an oblation of rice gruel mixed with ghee for seven days
To enthrall vaiśyas, one should offer barley with sugar. They will become enthralled
If one offers oil-cakes, śūdras will become enthralled
If one mixes all these ingredients together, all the castes will become enthralled. {.} “If anyone suffering from exhaustion offers a bali at a road junction or in an empty house, they will be freed from exhaustion
If one recites the mantra while touching someone’s face, their fever will depart
If one’s knot of hair is incanted one hundred and eight times, one will be freed from all disease
For any disease, one should make a knot on a thread, tie one’s hair [with it], and go to sleep; all diseases will depart
When one is ravaged by a disease, one can be freed through mantra recitation alone
When one is seized by a throat obstruction, one should incant some clay from an anthill and apply it as a plaster. The disease will depart
In the case of eye disease, one should offer oblations of nīlīkalikas; it will go away.
This concludes the section on the rites that rely on the painting procedure. {.
“Following the previously described procedure, one should draw on an undamaged cloth, shorn to remove loose fibers, the divine youth Noble Mañjuśrī
He is fully adorned, red in color, has the form of a divine youth, and sits on a lotus seat
On his right is Noble Avalokiteśvara, and on his left, Samantabhadra. Both of them are a little smaller [than Mañjuśrī]
Having installed this painting, one should recite the mantra ten million times; one will become a king
One will, likewise, become a king if one offers one hundred thousand oblations of sandalwood sticks smeared with saffron
The same will occur if one offers ten million oblations of royal jasmine flowers smeared with ghee. {.
“If one offers into the fire a pile of lotuses, one will obtain a hoard of dinars equal in number to the lotuses in the pile
If one does not obtain them while repeating the mantra over each lotus, one will become the monarch of the vidyādharas
If one offers one hundred thousand oblations of cashew nuts, this will bring one thousand dinars
If one offers one hundred thousand oblations of vyādhighātaka fruits, one will become an owner of great wealth
By offering one hundred and eight oblations of agalloch sticks, one will obtain grain
If one continually offers oblations of sesame, one’s supply of grain will, likewise, be unbroken. {.
“If one offers into the fire one hundred thousand oblations of cow’s rice mixed with curds, one will obtain one thousand cows
If one offers fenugreek seeds mixed together with śamī fruits, one will obtain whatever virgin girl one desires
If one offers śamī leaves, this will bring all types of pleasure
If one offers flowers of the agati tree smeared with milk, one will enthrall a brahmin
If one offers flowers of white oleander, one will enthrall a kṣatriya
If one offers blossoms of the bayur tree, one will enthrall a king
If one offers flowers of the thorn apple, one will enthrall a śūdra
If one offers one hundred thousand oblations of flowers of the crown flower plant smeared with curds, honey, and ghee, one will be freed from all disease. {.
“Following the same procedure, one should offer one hundred thousand fragrant flowers at the feet; one will definitely obtain happiness
If one lights a fire using sticks of the bodhi tree and offers one thousand oblations of śamī flowers, one will pacify the problems caused by the nakṣatras
If one goes into battle with the mantra inscribed with bovine bezoar tied to one’s head, one will not be touched by weapons
If one places the Mañjuśrī [mantra] on the shoulders of the elephants in the front line of the army, the enemy army will be crushed through merely seeing it
If one goes into battle, having affixed, at the end of a banner, a figurine of the divine youth sitting on a golden peacock throne, the enemy army will be crushed through merely seeing it. {.
“One should offer one hundred thousand flowers of royal jasmine at the feet and go to sleep on a bed of kuśa grass spread at the same spot
In one’s dreams one will be told whatever one wanted [to know]
Having offered one thousand lamps, one should prepare a single lamp with a wick of lotus stalk fibers, wrap it in licorice, light it, and look on
one will behold Mañjuśrī, the divine youth, as he really is.
This concludes the second [group of rites that rely on] the painting procedure. {.
“One should make a figurine of the divine youth out of gold or silver, with the right hand forming the boon-granting gesture and the left holding a text of the blessed Prajñāpāramitā . Having placed it before a suchlike basket containing relics, one should recite the one-syllable mantra one hundred thousand times
One should worship it with offerings during the daytim
and feed, in front of the figurine, male and female children
One should provide song, music, and book reading
When the mantra recitation [of one hundred thousand repetitions] is completed, one should make a farewell offering of the three types of flowers and ask [the deity] to depart
This should be done following the previously described procedure for the summoning and the dismissing. {.
“One should form the padma mudrā and recite the mantra
Then, with the banner mudrā, one should do the invoking
with the swastika mudrā, one should offer the seat
with the complete mudrā, the welcome offering
with the single liṅga mudrā, flowers
with the wishing mudrā, lamps
with the twin mudrā, incense
with the peacock throne mudrā, fragrances
and with the staff mudrā, a bali
Following this procedure, one should practice day and night, day after day, until the mantra recitation [of one hundred thousand repetitions] is completed
After that, one can commence the rites. {.
“If one sets afloat on a river that flows toward the ocean one hundred thousand flowers of royal jasmine, one will obtain a dominion
If one places, at nighttime, a heap of royal jasmine flowers before the Blessed One and goes to sleep there
one will see in one’s dream the Blessed One teaching the Dharma, surrounded by bodhisattvas
One should do this rite only for the intended person and no one else. {.
“If one offers, while fasting, oblations of pine resin incense mixed with honey, starting during the bright fortnight, one will obtain a kingdom
If one recites the mantra ten million times, one will behold Mañjuśrī in person
and he will teach the Dharma. If one brings [him] up [in conversation] with someone, he will appear directly
One will become a bodhisattva irreversibly established on the path to buddhahood.
This concludes the third group of rites that rely on the painting procedure. {.
“One should fashion out of red sandalwood the form of the divine youth flanked by Priyaṅkara on one side and Vīramatī, sheltered by an aśoka tree, on the other
One should place them to one side and make a replica [of them] from red sandalwood mixed with salt, mustard, and brown mustard
One should finely chop [the replica] and offer [the fragments] as oblations
One whose name one recites while making the offering will become enthralled
Similarly, one whose name one recites while offering udumbara fruits will become enthralled
So too, one whose name one recites while offering kākodumbarikā fruits will become enthralled. {.
“If one wants to enthrall a brahmin, one should offer oblations of śṛṅgāṭaka
if it is a kṣatriya, one should offer lotus roots
if it is a vaiśya, one should offer kaśeruka roots
if it is a śūdra, one should offer oblations of śālūka. If one offers one thousand and eight oblations of salt and sugar grains three times a day for seven days, whoever’s name one recites while offering, that person will be enthralled
If one offers one thousand and eight oblations of neem tree leaves smeared with mustard oil three times a day for seven days, whoever’s name one uses while offering, that person will be enthralled
Each of these homa rites will result in enthrallment. {.
“If one offers into the fire one hundred thousand flowers of yellow-berried nightshade, one will obtain gold
If one offers one thousand and eight kālāñjikā flowers, one will obtain a large village
If one offers flowers of the trumpet flower tree, one’s supply of grain will be inexhaustible
If one offer flowers of śrīparṇī, one will obtain gold
If one offers sweet flag smeared with curds, honey, and ghee, one will have an upper hand in all debates
If one places in a copper dish juice of the brāhmī plant blended with ghee, incants it ten thousand times, and drinks it, one will be victorious in all debates
If one throws, in front of an angry person, a lump of earth incanted one thousand and eight times, their anger will depart.
This concludes the fourth group of rites that rely on the painting procedure. {.
“One should commission a painter to paint, while observing the ritual fast, on an undamaged, shorn cloth and using uncontaminated paints, Noble Mañjuśrī sitting on a lotus seat and teaching the Dharma
On his right is Noble Mahāmekhalā, and on his left, Noble Prajñāpāramitā
The latter is reciting mantras, is adorned in all types of adornments, and is dressed in white clothes
Below Noble Mañjuśrī, there is a lotus lake dotted with many different species of lotus, where two nāga kings, their bodies submerged, hold lotus stalks in their hands. {.
“Noble Aparājitā, to one side, is destroying vināyakas and obstructers. Her mouth is blazing with fire and her brow is knitted
On the other side there is Noble Parṇaśavarī. She is dark, with red eyes, and she holds a noose and an axe in her hands
Mounted upon a peacock, she is the practitioner’s protectress
The practitioner, for his part, should be painted holding a garland of lotuses in his hands and looking at the face of Noble Mañjuśrī
Above Noble Mañjuśrī two gods should be painted, holding in their hands yak-tail whisks, flower garlands, and drums. {.
“One should install this painting facing west in a caitya containing relics and recite the mantra ten million times
At the end of the recitation, one should offer a large pūjā, have the Prajñāpāramitā read aloud, and recite the mantra ten thousand times while looking at Mañjuśrī’s face
The painting will subsequently shake
One will obtain a kingdom and the divine eye. One will become a vidyādhar
and will laugh, will become a wheel turner, and will teach
One will attain the first bodhisattva level and will listen to Mañjuśrī’s Dharma teachings. {.
“One should, in front of the same painting, obtain ghee from a tawny cow that has given birth to a calf of the same color, place it in a copper bowl, and recite the mantra until the ghee becomes hot, then emits smoke, and then bursts into flames
If one drinks it when it becomes hot, one will become supremely intelligent with the power to remember [everything heard]
if one drinks it when it emits smoke, one will become invisible
if one drinks it when it bursts into flames, one will be able to walk on air
One should place the ghee inside a bowl of unbaked clay with a lid, wrap the bowl in sweet flag and royal jasmine flowers, and recite the mantra until sprouts appear
If one eats the sprouts, one will be able to retain in one’s memory [everything heard]
If one recites the mantra another ten million times, one will behold Mañjuśrī in person, hear his Dharma teachings, and have faith in them. {.
“One should make a hundred-petaled lotus out of gold, place one’s right knee on the ground
and recite the mantra until the lotus emits flames. Through merely holding it, one will become the monarch of the vidyādharas
unassailable by others
One should put some red arsenic, yellow orpiment, or collyrium in a box make of śrīparṇī wood and recite the mantra until the substance makes a crackling sound
Through merely holding it, one will become an invincible master of the rākṣasas and piśācas who roam the earth. {.
“One should take an undamaged sword with all the characteristics of good quality and recite the mantra until the sword acquires a hood like a snake
By holding the sword, one will become an unassailable emperor of vidyādharas and live for an eon
One should wrap some red arsenic in the three metals, place it in one’s mouth, and recite the mantra until it makes a gurgling sound. One will become an invisible sword bearer
Unseen, one will be able to pursue all kinds of virtuous quests, except for the hedonistic ones
One should obtain some pith from a bodhi tree that grows on a śamī tree, wrap it in the three metals, place it in the mouth, and recite the mantra until it makes a gurgling sound
One will become invincibl
and will live one thousand years. {.
“One should place a silver wheel in front of an asura opening and recite the mantra until the wheel has breached the [locking] devices set by the asuras and enters there
At that very moment, asura girls will emerge
If one enters their place with them, one will live one eon
One should place an iron trident at the opening of that passage and recite the mantra there
All the locking devices in there will break up
One will be able to enter with the girls that one desires and live there for one eon
One will behold Blessed Maitreya.
This concludes the fifth group of rites that rely on the painting procedure. {.
“One should commission [a figurine of] Noble Mañjuśrī, the size of a thumb, made from the white crown flower plant
If one offers to it one hundred thousand flowers of the crown flower plant, one will obtain a vassal kingdom
If [the figurine] is made from the root of white oleander, one thumb in size, and one offers to it ten million flowers of the same plant, one will become a minister
If the figurine is made of karahāṭa wood, one vitasti in size, and one offers to it one hundred thousand flowers of the same tree, one will become the general of an army
If the figurine of Noble Mañjuśrī is made of white sandalwood, one vitasti in size, and one offers to it one hundred thousand flowers of royal jasmine, one will become a family priest. {.
“One should commission a figurine of Noble Mañjuśrī made from the wood of the bodhi tree, one finger in size
If one offers to it a jar of unsullied water, one will be highly esteemed by many people
If the figurine is made of ‘all fragrances,’ one will obtain, by offering to it flowers of all the fragrances, whatever one desires
If a practitioner of mantra continually offers oblations of agalloch sticks, he will be highly esteemed by many people
By reciting continually he will purify even the five karmas of immediate retribution
he will see Mañjuśrī at the time of death
and he will propagate Mañjuśrī’s teachings. {.
“If one recites the mantra one hundred and eight times every time one rises up [in the morning], one will be unassailable by any being
If one looks at the master, having incanted one’s eyes, he will become kindly disposed
Whoever one targets with the rite will be affected within seven days if they are in the same locality
if they are in another village, within twenty-one days
if they are in another province, after four months
if they are in a river, after six months. One may thus accomplish every activity, except for the pleasure-oriented or violent, using the procedure particular to one’s own lineage, and not other mantra [lineages].
This concludes the sixth group of rites that rely on the painting procedure. {.
“This bliss-granting king of manuals Is said to be of benefit at the end of the eon. It was formerly taught by the Sage For beings with little merit. {.
“It will bring accomplishments At that terrible and dreadful time When the teaching of the Teacher, The majestic Lion of the Śākyas, has disappeared. {.
“Now the seventh procedure will be taught In this king of manuals that brings happiness
This ritual procedure of mine is taught For that terrible time. {.
“This method is intended especially For beings with little merit
It is the root cause for the accumulations that lead to awakening; It is oriented toward the path of the three vehicles. {.
“During this period, I teach beings The skill in means
As they will be stupefied by craving And confused by desire and hatred. {.
“I teach this method for those Who are controlled by the power of craving 
The method that is the cause of good karma For those bound by the fetters of craving. {.
“The accomplishment, that which is to be accomplished, And the power substances arise based on the mantra methods
They are taught by the guides of the world For those beings who require guidance. These rites possess great efficacy [When performed by] practitioners who recite mantras.” {.
This was spoken by the eminent Sage, The Lion of the Śākyas, the supreme being
Having thus taught at length about The power and efficacy of the mantra system, He then explained the accomplishment That never fails during this debased eon. {.
The supreme Victor then said to the hosts of gods In the realm of the Pure Abode
“Whatever, friends, was taught at length In this king of manuals Constitutes the instructions of Mañjughoṣa Intended for the benefit of the world. {.
This concludes the detailed chapter that belongs to the section on the ritual procedures of Noble Mañjuśrī, twenty-eighth in “The Root Manual of Noble Mañjuśrī,” an extensive Mahāyāna sūtra that forms a garland-like basket of bodhisattva teachings
At that time the blessed Śākyamuni again directed his gaze at the realm of the Pure Abode and spoke to Mañjuśrī, the divine youth, as follows: {.
“There is, Mañjuśrī, in this division of your ritual prescriptions, a seventh [set of] rites involving a painting that will be effective at the end of the [dark] eon and will without fail lead to accomplishment
This accomplishment will include the arising and maturing of happiness, the knowledge of the physical world, and the forestalling of all painful destinies, and it will certainly lead to awakening.” {.
The blessed Śākyamuni then taught the heart mantra of Mañjuśrī, the divine youth
“It contains six syllables whose nature is to liberate from the six destinies; It has an inconceivable, unequaled, and immeasurably great power; It liberates from the ocean of all the oceans of existence, From the misery of the three sufferings, and from the fetters that bind one to existence. {.
“It can touch all the worlds And no spirit can withstand it. It purifies the paths of [cyclic] existence, Invincible to all spirits. {.
“It brings about the qualities of buddhahood And wards off all evil beings
All the buddhas rejoice in it, As it produces every good fortune
It is the most eminent among all the mantras Included in the teachings of Mañjuśrī. {.} “What is this mantra
It is: “ Oṁ vākyeda namaḥ
“Now its ritual will be taught
Living on a diet of solid and liquid dishes of vegetables or barley, bathing and changing clothes thrice a day, one should recite the mantra one hundred thousand times
This constitutes the preliminary practice
Then, one should commission a painter who is fasting to paint Noble Mañjuśrī on an undamaged cloth with fringed edges, using uncontaminated paints. He sits on a lotus seat and teaches the Dharma in the form of a divine youth, adorned with all the ornaments, with his upper robe over one shoulder. {.
“To his left there is Noble Avalokiteśvara with a lotus and a yak-tail whisk in his hands, and to his right, Noble Samantabhadra
Above [Mañjuśrī], two vidyādharas should be drawn emerging from the clouds and holding garlands
Below [Mañjuśrī] should be drawn the practitioner, holding an incense holder in his hand
Mountain peaks should be drawn all around, and below, a lotus lake. {.
“One should install this painting, facing west, in a caitya containing relics, offer a large pūjā, light butter lamps, and cast one thousand and eight flowers of royal jasmine at Mañjuśrī’s face, one at a time, incanting each of them with the mantra
Subsequently, a loud and deep sound of hūṁ will be heard, or the painting will shake
If the sound is heard, one will become a king over the entire earth
if the painting shakes, one will excel among all speakers and will become an adept of all worldly treatises
If one does not succeed [in this], one will become proficient in all rites.
This concludes the first rite. {.
“One should offer oblations, throughout the entire night, of agalloch sticks smeared with mustard oil, more than half a finger long, onto the smokeless embers of cutch firewood
At sunrise, one will behold Noble Mañjuśrī, who will grant whatever boon one desires, except for hedonistic ones. {.
“One should recite the mantra all night, while burning sandalwood incense in front of the painting without interruption. Subsequently, Blessed Mañjuśrī will arrive in person and give profound Dharma teachings
One should apply oneself to them with confidence. By doing so, one will be free from all disease and able to fully exercise one’s own will. {.
“One should make a lotus flower out of red sandalwood, six fingers in circumference, complete with a stem, and wipe it with red sandalwood paste
One should then incant the residue of one thousand such oblations one thousand times
Then, during the full moon, one should place it on a lotus leaf and hold it up in one’s hands in front of the painting. One should recite the mantra until the substance emits light
By taking hold of it, one will obtain the form of a sixteen-year-old divine youth, the color of molten gold, exceeding in splendor the sun itself. One will be honored by all the vidyādharas and will live one great eon
After death, one will be reborn in Abhirati. {.
“During a lunar eclipse, one should get some white sweet flag, wipe it with the five products of a cow, stuff some pipal leaves underneath it, and recite the mantra until the sweet flag gets hot, then emits smoke, and then bursts into flames
If it gets hot, one will be able to enthrall all people and outmatch all speakers
If it emits smoke, one will become invisible and live thirty thousand years
If it bursts into flames, one will be able to walk on air and will live for one great eon. {.
“One should obtain some ghee from a tawny cow that has given birth to a calf of the same color, place it in a copper bowl stuffed with seven pipal leaves, and recite the mantra until the triple effect occurs [of the ghee becoming hot, emitting smoke, and bursting into flames]. After drinking it, one will be able to, [respectively], retain in one’s memory everything that one has heard, become invisible, and walk on air. {.
“During a lunar eclipse, one should place some puṣkara seeds in one’s mouth and recite the mantra until the seeds make a bubbling sound
If one places them in the mouth wrapped in the three metals, one will become invisible
One will become visible again after spitting them out. {.
“One should place in one’s mouth some fragrant cloves and recite the mantra six hundred thousand times. Whoever one speaks to will become enthralled
If one recites the mantra one million two hundred thousand times while subsisting on dishes of milk and barley, one will become a vidyādhara
If one recites the mantra one hundred thousand times while living on alms and observing a strict vow of silence, one will become invisible
If one recites the mantra ten million times, one will receive Dharma teachings from Noble Mañjuśrī [himself] so that one becomes a bodhisattva who sojourns on earth for the last time
If one recites continually, all one’s aims will be accomplished. {.
“The target whose effigy, made of ‘all fragrances,’ one chops up and offers the fragments of as oblations will become enthralled after seven nights
If one offers into the fire one thousand and eight oblations of white mustard seeds smeared with saffron [paste], one will enthrall a king
If one offers one hundred thousand oblations of sesame seeds smeared with curds, honey, and ghee, one will become a great householder who gives everything away. {.
“One should draw a circle with uncontaminated cow dung, bestrew it with flowers
and recite the mantra one hundred and eight times. If one subsequently reads aloud a genuine Dharma text, one will become supremely intelligent within one month
If one incants bovine bezoar one hundred and eight times and applies it as a bindi, one will be loved by all the people
If one incants [one’s] topknot seven times, one will become invulnerable to assault by any being. {.
“If one offers ten thousand oblations of kiri garlands, one will become free from all disease
If one recites the mantra seven times every day, one will purify the karma that would otherwise be inevitably experienced
If one recites the mantra one hundred and eight times at the time of death, one will behold the complete [form of] Noble Mañjuśrī face to face
This concludes the seventh [set of] rites [that employ] the painting.” {.
This concludes the detailed chapter with the seventh [set of] rites in the section on the ritual procedures that employ the painting of Noble Mañjuśrī, twenty-ninth in “The Root Manual of Noble Mañjuśrī,” an extensive Mahāyāna sūtra that forms a garland-like basket of bodhisattva teachings
At that time, the blessed Śākyamuni again directed his gaze at the realm of the Pure Abode and spoke to Mañjuśrī, the divine youth, as follows: {.
“There is, Mañjuśrī, in your mantra treatise, a list of places for accomplishing any vidyārāja mantra, starting with the mantra of Cakravartin —the foremost among all tathāgata- uṣṇīṣa s
In brief, everywhere in the northern regions, the mantras of tathāgata- vidyārāja s will become accomplished. {.
“In Tibet and in China, Mañjughoṣa will be accomplished
The mantras that are his Will be successful there. {.
“[The mantras] of uṣṇīṣa kings Will be successful there in every respect
In Kāviśa, Vakhala, Everywhere in Uḍḍiyāṇa, {.
“In Kaśmīra, Sindhudeśa, At the foot of the Himalayas— In these northern countries, The mantras that are virtuous are effective. {.
“The mantras that are said to effect pacifying, Whether those chanted by the buddhas in the past, Those in use today, Or those that will be uttered by the buddhas in the future, {.
“All of them are effective In the foothills of the Himalayas
In that auspicious and virtuous region One should undertake pacifying activities. {.
“The mantras originating in the Lotus family Are accomplished in Madhyadeśa
Commonly observed there are also the accomplishments Of the Elephant and the Jewel families. {.
“The mantras of beings of yakṣa origin, Such as the yakṣa Pañcika, and [the yakṣiṇī] Hārītī, And also the mantras of gandharva beings, All bring their respective accomplishments there. {.
“Indeed, in the city of Vārāṇasī; Everywhere in Magadha; In Aṅga in the east, And everywhere in Kāmarūpa; {.} “On the pleasant banks of the Brahmaputra, And everywhere in Vaṅga
One will accomplish [the mantras of] Jambhala, Who, likewise, is said to be of the Jewel family. {.
“On the ocean shore or the islands, Everywhere near a [large] body of water, And in the pleasant city of Laṅkā, The [following] mantra deities can be accomplished: {.
“Bhṛkuṭī, Tārā, Mahāśriyā, Yaśasvinī, All the mantras [of the goddess] called Sitā, And the four Kumārīs [who live] in the great ocean. {.
“They can be accomplished in these places And everywhere in the east, In the foothills of the Vindhyas, And everywhere in the Himalayas. {.
“[The mantras of] Kārttikeya and Mañjuśrī Can be accomplished anywhere in places Such as lovers’ hideouts, caves, Mountains, and wild forests. {.
“One can accomplish there [the mantras of] vināyakas Who create obstacles for mantra reciters
Powerful, single-tusked, And furnished with a trunk — {.
“And also [the mantras of] those with the form of a horse And many other forms
They are the divine sons of Īśāna Who create various obstacles. {.
“The places thus described are also noted As the places of success for the mantras Of the mātṛs in their various shapes And the terrifying grahas. {.
“[The beings] designated as pretas by birth, Who feed on humans, [are associated with] the southwestern sector; [The mantras of] the preta king are recommended for that quarter, As it is the place where the corresponding accomplishments will arise. {.
“It can also be recommended as the place of success [In controlling] all the spirits
[The mantras of] the valiant Vajrakrauñca Will be successful in his quarter. {.
“The main asura mantras And other worldly mantras Will be effective there. The mantras belonging to the southern quarter {.
“Are those of the king of the pretas Known as Yama—they are recommended [for that quarter]. The authentic Śaiva or Vaiṣṇava mantras Will also be effective [there]. {.
“When using cruel mantras in peaceful rites, These places are not suitable. For those who perform cruel rites, The mantras of Vajrapāṇi are recommended. {.
“The mantras of those who perform evil rites Are effective in the south
In that quarter will also be observed the arising Of the [corresponding] nonvirtuous results. {.
“The mantras taught to be of Āditya, Those known to be of Soma, And the mantras of Indra Are effective in the western quarter, the auspicious. {.
“The powerful lord of yakṣa s himself Will be accomplished there
He grants wealth to all beings. To the naive and foolish {.} “He grants common sense. [These gifts are] his ritual specialty
This blissful fulfiller of aims Can be accomplished in the west
He is known here on earth As Dhanada, the ‘wealth giver.’ {.
“Vajrapāṇi, himself a yakṣa, Is a bodhisattva of great magical power
Chief among the mantra deities, He is a master of the ten bodhisattva levels. {.
“All the mantras—those that originate In the Vajra and Lotus familie
And those of all the eight families— Belong to [their respective] eight quarters. {.
“The mantras that originate from the Victorious One Can be accomplished in the northern quarter
Those that originate from the Lotus family Can be accomplished in the eastern quarter. {.
“The mantras that belong to the Vajra family Can be accomplished in the southern quarter
The Elephant family is said to be in the west, And the Jewel family is at the intermediate point(s) of compass
The junction between the western and the northern quarters Is where the success of their [mantras] is said to belong. {.
“At the junction between the western and southern quarters, [The mantras of] the yakṣa family [can be accomplished]
And in the intermediate quarter between south and east, [The mantras of] the powerful śrāvakas. {.
“[The mantras] indicated by the family name Will be effective in the places [as mentioned]
[The mantras] of the pratyeka­buddhas Originate in the northeastern quarter. {.
“[Wherever] in the world [a particular] family is highly esteemed, In those places [its mantras] will be effective
All the worldly mantras will be effective In the world division below. {.
“Thus, for entering the subterranean paradises, The mantras of [all] the eight families will be effective
There are also supramundane mantras— They are the uṣṇīṣa mantras, and so forth. {.
“Originating from the wheel-turning victors, They can be accomplished in the world division above
The mantras of the vajra holder Are effective everywhere, in all world divisions. {.
“Similarly, the other mantra-kings, Such as all those that originate in the Lotus family, Can all be accomplished everywhere
The same is true for all the mantras that bring enjoyments and profit. {.
“[The mantras] of the Vajra and Lotus families Are effective throughout the entire period [indicated for them]
The recommended places have already been specified; Now the time is being told: {.
“The mantra accomplishments related to the victorious ones Arise at [the time of] the arising of any buddha
During the middle time of the buddhas, The accomplishments related to the Lotus and Vajra families arise. {.
“The mantras belonging to other families Are accomplished at other times
Their success depends on the right time
It is said not to arise at other times. {.
“The highest accomplishment comes from ardor; It can be attained within three births
However, those who recite the mantra continually, Are mentally devoted to it, {.
“And have faith in the bodhisattvas Can attain accomplishment even in this life
If they have faith in the Three Jewels, Are adorned with bodhicitta, {.
“Observe the prescribed conduct, have great insight, And have confidence in the tantras and mantras
Their mantras will be accomplished without effort, As they thus maintain the conduct of awakening. {.
“Ordinary beings, [too], can accomplish their rites And fulfill their specified individual aims
The mantras can always be accomplished, But not by beings who are deluded. {.
“For this reason, the victorious ones Have taught this king of manuals
And so, [too], the seventh chief buddha Teaches in detail its rituals and mantras.” {.
The foremost among sages, This majestic moon among buddhas, Further said to the seniormost son of the buddhas, Mañjughoṣa of great splendor: {.
“Listen, O divine youth, about the power of mantras To manifest the highest destiny
At the time when the buddhas, the guides of the world, Are physically present, {.
“At that time the accomplishment Of uṣṇīṣa and other such mantras is noteworthy
At that time King Cakravartin And Tejorāśi become celebrated. {.
“[Also,] Sitātapatra and Jayoṣṇīṣa Are extolled by the victorious ones. These and other uṣṇīṣa [kings] Will be accomplished at that time. {.
“At the time when the wheel turner Is reborn in Jambūdvīpa And remains there as the supreme among two-legged beings— The Dharma king, the fully realized Buddha
At that time all the mantra utterances Will lead to accomplishment.” {.
This concludes the detailed chapter on the ritual restrictions concerning the place and the time [of accomplishing the mantras], thirtieth in “The Root Manual of Noble Mañjuśrī,” an extensive Mahāyāna sūtra that forms a garland-like basket of bodhisattva teachings
At that time the blessed Śākyamuni again directed his gaze at the realm of the Pure Abode and said to Mañjuśrī, the divine youth
“Listen Mañjuśrī, divine youth, as I teach about the ways of spirits who possess other beings, and the accompanying auspicious and inauspicious signs.” {.
Mañjuśrī, the divine youth, rose from his seat, prostrated at the feet of the Blessed One, folded his hands, and said to the Blessed One: “Good it is, O Blessed One
Please teach about the thoughts and actions ( cittacaritāni ) of beings who enter other beings’ bodies—the noble and divine siddha s, gandharvas, yakṣa s, rākṣasas, piśācas, mahoragas, and so forth, and the human and nonhuman beings whose bodies are generated by different types of karma and who have taken different types of birth and have different forms and characteristics. Now it has come to pass, O Blessed One! Now it has come to pass, O Sugata, if you think that the time is right!” {.
Having thus spoken, Mañjuśrī, the divine youth, became silent. Having made his request, he now remained in his seat, waiting for Gautama, the supreme Victor, the guide of the world, the seventh of the victorious ones
Blessed Śākyamuni, for his part, taught the knowledge of the thoughts, actions, external aspects, and characteristics of such beings, and also the time when the possession occurs. {.
“A being who entered the body of another Can be drawn forth by the application of mantras
Some such beings seize a human being on earth Because of their desire for food. {.
“Others do this because of their cruel disposition
On the surface of the earth. {.
“Others again, themselves free from desire And bound by the pledge of compassion, May descend into this world of mortals And seize pure human beings. {.
“Among people, those who are praiseworthy, Pure, not deformed, and of clear complexio
Are taken possession of, it is said, When the sun is rising. {.
“On such an occasion, the descent occurs In the evening when the sun sets
Or during the first watch of the night, When the moon is waxing. {.
“Such a descent is known to occur for the mediums Who are praiseworthy because of their pure actions, Always live in accord with the Dharma, And engage in virtuous and skillful pursuits. {.
“If they are as described, mortals can be entered By powerful beings who have extinguished their passions, If the place and the person are pure And the stars and nakṣatras are auspicious. {.
“Their descent may be observed On an auspicious day of the week And an auspicious lunar day of the bright fortnight Whose lunar asterism is governed by auspicious planets And perfect conjunctions
It can also occur when the moon is completely full. {.
“When powerful, desire-free beings have thus descended, They will be indicated by the following signs
They will remain floating above the ground At the height of a fan-palm tree. {.
“They will appear sitting unsupported In a cross-legged position
Saying various divine and peerless words, As pleasant to the ears as Brahmā’s. {.
“These great beings will speak About matters that cause them concern
Drawn by the uṣṇīṣa mudrās, They will come down to the ground. {.
“One should wait for the moment before the great beings touch the ground, And immediately present them with a welcome offering Consisting of water mixed with flowers of royal jasmine, White sandalwood, and saffron. {.
“One should thus promptly offer Water for the feet, prepared [as described]
The mantra practitioner should prostrate themself on the ground And, motivated by kindness, should supplicate the great beings, {.
“Who, for their part, Without any selfishness, Will say divine words With a pure voice pleasant to the ears. {.
“One who knows the mantras with confidence Should ask them whatever one wants
One should not be afraid at this time, But remember Mañjughoṣa. {.
“Forming the mudrā five-crested, Or another one that arises from the uṣṇīṣa, One should bind the directions, Including the ones above and below. {.
“The great beings will then tell everything From the middle to the end
And from the beginning to the middle, Truthfully, about the past, the future, {.
“And the present, as it really is. Such splendorous beings will express it
With unblinking eyes and without moving, They will look on without fear or hatred. {.
“Whatever they say is true And will not turn out to be otherwise
Regarding accomplishing what is to be accomplished, Whether it is power substances, the course of rebirth, the destinies, {.
“Or the attainment of pratyeka­buddhahood, bodhisattvahood, Arhatship, or the great awakening, it will inevitably come to pass
Similarly, they will correctly ascertain the buddha family Or the bodhisattva lineage. {.
“The period without the Buddha lineage And the powerful beings in the future — All this they will truthfully describe, Indicating also the time of their occurrence
The practitioner should speak, taking advantage of the moment, And not wait for another occasion. {.
“Whatever one requests at that particular moment, Motivated by good intentions
Will all be swiftly obtained— In particular, the mantra accomplishment
One will obtain all good fortune According to one’s desires and hopes. {.
“Having requested the great beings to depart With a prompt offering that is agreeable to them, The mantra practitioner should perform The bowl protection rite, following the prescribed procedure. {.
“One should place the collapsed body On a bed on the ground, And employ the mantra as taught by the victorious ones In conjunction with the uṣṇīṣa mudrā. {.
“Using this mudrā, or the five-crested, One should perform the protection rite
Then the being left behind on the ground Will become well in their body. {.
“This protection is prescribed For all possessed beings
Evil beings will not then be able To harm those used as such vessels
This protection is indeed great For people who become vessels. {.
“If the words of the [medium] are heard in midair, And the language is that known in Madhyadeśa
It indicates that [the possessing being] is of divine birth, From the Akaniṣṭha or other heavens in the realm of form
Other signs indicating their origin In the realm of form will also be observed. {.
“For the lords of the desire realm, Ruling over the gods of this realm, The signs will indicate their [relatively] inferior birth, And their speech will be very sweet. {.
“If they are divine yakṣa s dwelling in palaces Manifested here on earth, The language of these yakṣa s will be the same As that of Vārāṇasī along with Magadha. {.
“Similarly, the language of Aṅga Is known to be that of mahoragas
The language of Pūrvī Is that of the powerful garuḍas. {.
“Similarly, the same language That is spoken in Vaṅga Is also known to be the speech of kinnaras, And, as such, indicates them [as the possessing beings]. {.
“The language of Oḍra is invariably That of the sword-wielding siddha s, the masters of magic. This language of the vidyādharas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . {.
“The language of Kāmarūpa is the language Of the sages who can assume any form
It indicates that [the possessing beings] Are the sages with the five superknowledges. {.
“The language of Samataṭa And the language of Harikela Are based on the sound ḍ And are indistinct and unclear. {.
“Languages where the sound l abounds Are said to be piśāca
They are found on the islands Of Karmaraṅga, Nārikela, {.
“Vāruṣaka, Nagna, and Bali, And also among the inhabitants Of the island of Java and other islands. {.
“Indistinct languages where The sound r abounds, Both wispy and harsh, Are spoken by the angry pretas. {.
“They are found in the southern countries, Among the inhabitants of Andhra, Karnāṭaka, Drāviḍa, Kośala, Aḍavi, And on the island of Siṃhala. {.
“Languages that abound in the sound ḍ, In combination with the guttural ra , are known as rākṣasa
They are spoken by people Inhabiting other islands. {.} “The language of the mātṛs of great vigor Is the same as the one just described
The languages that indicate [these mātṛs as the possessing beings] Are the western languages of Vidiśa and Mālava. {.} “If the language [spoken by the medium] Is recognized as that of Vatsa­matsārṇava, Śūrasena , Daśārṇava, The hilly Śrīkaṇṭha , or Gurjara, {.} “This indicates that [the possessing beings] Are the chief grahas, Āditya and so forth. If the language is recognized as that of Pāriyātra, [The possessing beings] are other grahas. {.} “If the languages resemble those spoken By the mountain dwellers in Arbuda, Sahya, or Malaya, Or those spoken by the inhabitants Of Khaṣadroṇi, {.
“They indicate that [the possessing beings] Are kuṣmāṇḍas and so forth
These languages are based on the sounds Śa, ra, ṣa , and sa ; and ya, ra, la , and va. {.
“Languages abounding in the sound gha Indicate that [the possessing beings] are dānavas
Such languages are found In the countries of Kaśmīra and Kāviśa. {.
“All languages originate from the buddha families, [And the previously mentioned] belong to the family of Vajrapāṇi
For each of the main mantras There is one language that suits the best. {.
“Similarly, the Lotus family belongs in Madhyadeśa, [And the languages there] originate from this family
These languages, along with the outward manner of acting [Of the medium], will indicate an origin from the Lotus family. {.
“It has been explained earlier [how] to recognize [The possessing beings] as the sons of victors; The signs that betoken their freedom from desire Belong to [the family of] the victorious ones. {.
“The manner of acting [of the medium] will be particular To the place where the language [they use] comes from
This alone will indicate the [type of] the possessing being, As a sign that reveals everything. {.
“The languages of the people living In the foothills of the Himalayas North of the river Gaṅgā Indicate the yakṣa s, gandharvas, and ṛṣis. {.
“[The languages of] the people living in the foothills Of the Vindhya Mountains south of the Gaṅgā, As well as of those who live In the Śrīparvata Mountains, {.} “Indicate the rākṣasas, ostārakas, pretas, The misshapen mātṛs, The great vighnas with terrible forms, And the fearsome grahas. {.
“[The languages spoken by these] greedy stealers of the others’ life force Derive from the languages of the people just mentioned
The signs that indicate the country Include the mode of acting particular to that country. {.
“The evil beings that speak these languages Express themselves through the possessed mediums
There are many such beings—those [mentioned] and others That act in manners consistent with their modes of existence. {.
“They have many different forms And many different characteristics
The different types of [possessing] beings Each have their respective type of birth. {.
“The symptoms observed in the possessed medium Thus indicate the type [of the possessing being]
One should truly endeavor to Bring happiness to all people. {.
“For protection, one should employ [the mantras] Of the divine youth who is the origin of everything
The mantra reciter can do this By means of the six-syllable mantra. {.} “Used in combination with the great mudrā And placed upon the five locks of hair, This mantra will afford great protection.” {.
This concludes the detailed chapter with instructions on the procedure to be applied based on the symptoms [observed] in the possessed [person], thirty-first in “The Root Manual of Noble Mañjuśrī,” an extensive Mahāyāna sūtra that forms a garland-like basket of bodhisattva teachings
At that time the blessed Śākyamuni again directed his gaze at the realm of the Pure Abode and spoke to Mañjuśrī, the divine youth: {.
“Your mantras, Mañjuśrī, hold the key to the complete understanding of all the tantras
they possess the secrets of all the vidyā s, and, in consequence, they can also cause the ripening of all the results of good qualities accumulated over a long period of time
I will now authoritatively teach the factors of accomplishment, which are as follows: {.
“As time is not its primary cause, Accomplishment can arise in another life
The governing principle is rather that it arises Subject to previously created causes. {.
“One who lacks benefits can attain accomplishment Through correctly ascertaining the right means
The means attested as right for all beings Is to resort to you, the divine youth. {.
“What is here called the right means Is the ritual activity performed in advance
One who is steadfastly engaged in this way Will obtain the supreme accomplishment. {.
“Ritual activity accomplishes that which has not been accomplished; There is no accomplishment without ritual activity
There must be the activity and its agent— When these are present, accomplishment will be achieved. {.
“One will obtain the highest level Through applying the right procedure
When the mantra practitioner does not say the mantra, Even what is not the mantra will become a mantra. {.
“By observing the ritual conduct of silence, One will win complete accomplishment
Through withholding his semen, The practitioner will obtain supreme intelligence. {.
“When passing away, one will obtain the ‘first destiny’ At the best possible location
As for the condition of one who thus passes away, One will become healthy and will never get old. {.
“If one desires accomplishment, But the signs indicate that the time is not right, One will not accomplish the mantras, Even if one is Śakra himself. {.
“Moreover, one’s endeavors are ill-timed If one does not benefit spirits and people
No accomplishment will manifest for such a one, Even if he is a high-minded brahmin. {.
“If one is lazy, full of cravings, Arrogant, proud, Loose of tongue, And always delights in vulgar company, Is slothful, and indulges in sex, How will he obtain accomplishment? {.
“Even the most prominent gods, Or the most prominent asuras, Will not be able to accomplish the mantra If they fail to follow the procedure
A rite without the right procedure Only causes the mind to wander. {.
“If beings recite unsuitable mantras, Violating the right procedure, Such mantras will produce Deluded views in those naive beings. {.
“These ignorant, senseless beings Will end up in the most miserable state of existence
The mantra holders will subsequently rescue them though, And set them free again. {.
“In stages, they will obtain accomplishment And a pleasant state of existence
The mantras will thus establish Such reciters in an unshakable state of bliss. {.
“The tathāgatas have thus taught Mantra recitation that never fails
Even if one has strayed from the right view, One will be the object of their kindness. {.
“There are spiritual friends, And there are their dear children—ordinary beings
For the latter, accomplishments have been taught Consistent with the three vehicles. {.
“One should therefore recite the mantra In all earnestness and fully concentrated
If the reciters employ the mantras Apart from the prescribed rituals, {.
“It will take them a long time Before they are liberated from saṃsāra
A long time will pass before one sees The accomplishment of such mantras. {.
“If, on the other hand, the mantras are employed according to procedure, One will swiftly obtain accomplishment And will see the results manifesting in full
Such mantras are said to be not without results. {.
“Such mantras will be accomplished in this very life, With the corresponding results arising accordingly
Without the result-oriented rite there will be no fruition
The rite that does not produce results is useless. {.
“The rite is called attended by results When the ritual performance produces results
The reciter of such [rites] will, in this life, Attain the deathless state {.
“[Where] the world is said to be blissful, And [the reciter] is delivered into a tranquil state
Such a follower of the Buddha’s path Will enter there, the great destiny. {.
“During the inauspicious lowest eon, He will see his own accomplishment
In this very life he will obtain accomplishment That will last beyond the end of this life. {.
“Until the final liberation there will be peace— This is the unconditioned, auspicious path
It has been explained to the world As the pure, auspicious state. {.
“The victorious ones taught about buddhahood, Explaining everything in full
At the end of such teaching, and only then, They taught the accomplishment of mantras. {.
“When the victorious ones are absent, Without manifesting individually, [For such times] the powerful, moon-like sages Taught the mantras to the world. {.
“It is taught that accomplishment can manifest for beings As a real experience during this life
When the knower of reality is absent, One can attain buddhahood by means of mantras. {.
“During the final time period, the dark eon, When the knower of reality has departed into the peace [of nirvāṇa], The mantras of those who [merely] desire wealth Will not be accomplished quickly. {.
“At that time, however, if an adept of the mantra system Performs the ritual according to procedure
He will [swiftly] become accomplished In the doctrine taught by the Sage. {.
“When a tathāgata is physically present, The supreme accomplishment can be expected [to arise] swiftly
In the intermediate period, The middling accomplishment is said [to arise]. {.
“Toward the end of the eon, The accomplishment is said to be inferior
For the auspicious period of the eon, Which is like flying in the empty sky, {.
“The guides of the world predicted The accomplishment of all the mantras
At that time, one can accomplish The chief family of the victorious ones. {.
“During the intermediate period, one can accomplish the Lotus family
Toward the end of the eon, one can accomplish the Vajra family
The mantras that are subject to the power of [former] aspirations Can be accomplished in any time period. {.
“[The mantras of] Avalokiteśvara, Mañjuśrī, Tārā, Bhṛkuṭī, the king of yakṣa s
And all the yakṣa -followers of Māṇicara Can, likewise, be accomplished in any period. {.
“The mantras and other [such tools] that cater to desires Are employed by all the [worldly] deities
These mantras, distinctly branded as worldly, Are accomplished during the dark eon. {.
“They are disseminated by gods and men
By the dānava lords, yakṣa s, rākṣasas, Ṛṣis, garuḍas, piśācas, Bhūtas, gaṇas, and grahas; {.
“By both human and nonhuman beings Who inhabit the realm of desire
By the powerful beings endowed with merit And by those who fearsomely engage in cruel activities; {.
“And by Śakra, Brahmā, Rudra, Īśāna , and others
Powerful mantras are taught By Viṣṇu and all the bhūtas. {.
“These mantras can be accomplished by reciters Toward the end of this lowest eon
At this dreadful time Cruel rites are accomplished. {.
“However, accomplishment in the enthrallment And the forced summons of spirits who feed on flesh Is seen as useless on earth and is censured In the world beyond. {.
“For this reason, the victorious lord Recommended for this dreadful time The teachings of Mañjughoṣa, Wholly devoted to the welfare of beings. {.
“In the form of mantras, He will destroy, at that time, evil beings, If the reciters [of these mantras] have faith in this teaching And worship the Three Jewels.” {.
This concludes the detailed chapter on the ritual procedures and the rules pertaining to [the particular] time periods, thirty-second in “The Root Manual of Noble Mañjuśrī,” an extensive Mahāyāna sūtra that forms a garland-like basket of bodhisattva teachings
At that time the blessed Śākyamuni again directed his gaze at the realm of the Pure Abode and spoke to Mañjuśrī, the divine youth, as follows: {.
“Your king of manuals, Mañjuśrī, styled as a nirdeśa, is a treasury of the sphere of phenomena, as it proceeds from the sphere of phenomena, which is the essence of the tathāgatas
This great sūtra, precious as a jewel, is divided into detailed sections. It is sanctioned [to teach] the greatest secrets of the tathāgatas and brings accomplishment of the supreme mantras
It contains auxiliary practices pertaining to the knowledge of signs and the rules for ascertaining the right time
[It also explains] the voices of all the [different] beings, differentiating the sounds made by sentient and insentient entities. {.
“There is an [aspect of] knowledge called verbal, And another is proclaimed to be non-verbal. There is also one that is mixed. Accordingly, the application of mantras is threefold. {.
“Mantras composed of divine words Are employed for impermanent goals
Always free expressions that are not grammatical, They are each adorned with conceptual meanings. {.} “The noble mantras are attested Within the entire siddhānta
As for the mantras that are devoid of lexical meaning, They are always divided into three. {.
“A mantra can also be adorned with phonemes That are either heavy, light , or medium
Such a mantra-queen would be adorned With vowels that are metrically arranged. {.
“The speech can be refined or not, Or, as the others put it, it can be with or without lexical meaning
By employing the meanings of verbal roots The mantras become adorned with a graspable meaning. {.
“The language of such mantras Is full of concepts and is entirely worldly
Such speech may be metrical and accented And consist of just one or two syllables. {.
“The efficacy of [the mantras of] Three, four, five, six, seven, Eight, nine, or ten syllables Is [also] well established. {.
“[These] ten source syllables, Expressed by means of ten letters
Can be multiplied, here on earth, Up to ten times. {.
“[Mantras] may [thus] consist of one hundred, Twenty, or just one syllable
Mantras are composed to include These standard syllables. {.
“The mantras that contain four pādas Will accomplish all aims
The most excellent and best mantras Are those taught by the victorious ones. {.
Of these two types, the middling ones are taught By the sons of the victorious ones. {.
“As for the inferior mantras, They are taught by any worldly person
The mantras described as debased Are those taught by the demons. {.} “The victorious ones described As standard the mantras of ten, eight, Seven, and twenty [syllables]and so forth, Until well over one hundred. {.
“The number of syllables That is the norm in the mantras Taught by the bodhisattvas Could be just one or two, or five hundred. {.
“The composition of a mantra is said to be An arrangement of words that consist of syllables
Meters depend on [metrical units that each] contain a vowel
[Mantras] are adorned with the individual meanings of verbal roots. {.
“[Mantric] speech should be recited well, In a manner that follows tantric [principles]
How would accomplishment ever arise If [mantras] were without word-sounds? {.
“Combining mudrās with words that contain retroflex sounds, Followed by the palatal and ending with the ‘hot’ sounds
And producing dental, labial, and guttural sounds— So is the sādhana performed. {.
“One should avoid indistinct pronunciation And recite the mantras correctly
One who pronounces the words fully and correctly, Observing the right prosody, will succeed. {.
“If, on the other hand, one strays from the right procedure, Neglects the ritual performance, and misses the word meanings, One’s mantras will not be accomplished soon
One may expect this to take a long time. {.
“The accomplishment of a reciter who does not recite Merely for show, will not be in vain
Even in their next life, they will see the boons and blessings Of their mantra accomplishment. {.
“Because of the power of the mantras Of such long-term reciters, Their rites, attended by these mantras, will be fruitful, Since they are mantra adepts. {.
“The lowest of all mantras Are the worldly mantras of humans, The mantras taught by any of the spirits, And the mantras that cater to one’s greed
They are said to include cerebralized letters — One, two, or three of them. {.
“Various foreign languages, Known to be spoken in [particular] countries, Have a linear structure, With the sounds arranged in a line
One thousand and eight, one hundred and eight, And down to a single letter. {.
“The speech may be in prose or in verse, Such as four pādas long, or just half a pāda
The verse could also be of the daṇḍaka type, measured in syllables, Or an extended, ‘shallow,’ skandhaka type, measured in mātras. {.
“[The speech,] endowed with meaning word by word, Is thus adorned with thousands of meanings
If the words, whether Sanskrit or Apabhraṃśa, Are devoid of meaning — {.
“If they are pronounced indistinctly, Or lack the metrical rhythm
It is said, when describing the accomplishment of such mantras, That it has no function or place. {.
“The following characteristics apply to all mantras
The mantras with multiple occurrences of the syllable śa, Adorned by the import of the syllable oṁ, And containing the syllable ta that indicates their belonging to the tantra Are certain to bring accomplishment. {.
“If the mantras that start with oṁ And end with m Also contain the syllable śa
They are auspicious and will bring results. {.} “Mantras with the form of a square containing the syllable t
That are not contracted at the end
And where the syllable ta is joined with the letter r, Are effective in ritual performances
The letter r occurring twice or many times at the beginning Will bring out good qualities of the syllable huṁ. {.
“When the syllable va is at the end of the square, The letters [of the mantra] will render the sādhana effective
The syllable ka may be joined with the letter r, And the syllable ma at the end become merely an m
Mantras that begin with the syllables ma or na Are said to be the best. {.
“Mantras that have many syllables ta Can be found in all the tantras
They are said to be associated with the north
Those associated with the south are adorned with huṁ
Those that have many syllables bha Are associated with the east and the northwest. {.
“The syllable ca belongs to Varuṇa
It is said to nourish and bring welfare to the world
The mantra that has many syllables va Is regarded as belonging to the great Indra. {.
“If it starts with a recourse to the Three Jewels, The mantra is one of refuge
If it includes, further on, an homage, It is the cause of peace and brings happiness. {.
“Otherwise, a mantra may be used For paying homage to all the gods
One’s own mantra and also the ‘lord of mantras’ Are suitable for all types of activity. {.
“Mantras that contain many syllables ḍa, And end with the syllable phaṭ [preceded by] huṁ, Are very cruel ones
They have great intensity and power. {.
“They instantly block [the target’s] life forc
And may be skillfully employed [to target] cruel beings
Especially those that commit evil
They should not be used against any others. {.
“The reciter should always avoi
Those things that are avoided by the sages
The mantras of pacifying and nourishin
Will accomplish both [one’s own and others’] interests. {.
“They can accomplish all the rites, Whatever have been taught
When they are recited the right way
Mantras possess energy and magical abilities. {.
“One should perform rites of pacifying Using the mantras taught by the victorious ones
For all the rites of nourishing, One should use the mantras of the Jewel family. {.
“All evil rites are employed In the activities of assault
All rites of assault should be performed Using the mantras of the Vajra family
Though forbidden by the lords of the world, Such mantras have been taught by the lord of yakṣa s. {.
“The mantras, in all their greatness, Manifest in order to guide sentient beings
They are said to be of three types, Always belonging to [one of] the three families. {.
“As for the eight families Enumerated by the Sage himself
The accomplishment in them is threefold, As it arises in three different ways
Supreme, middling, or inferior
This is its threefold division. {.
“It can be of a peaceful, Nourishing, or cruel type
This is taught exclusively In the context of mantra and tantra. {.
“When the exalted function of mantras Is utilized in the activity of assault, Such rites are debased And condemned by all the omniscient ones. {.
“Even when one is in trouble, one must not perform Any rite that interrupts the life force [of the target]
The magnitude of the karma incurred Is described here only briefly: {.
“The karmic consequences of mantras Employed in tantric procedures are far reaching and extensive
This has been taught in this king of manuals And can also be found in other tantras. {.
“Although one may be able to use any mantra, One should not perform inferior rites
Whatever worldly mantras there are, They are all of dubious benefit. {.
“All the supramundane mantras, on the other hand, Are always endowed with good qualities
The mantra accomplishments are infinite, As they are proclaimed to be. {.
“The count begins from one, But, similarly, twenty are described
Then thirty, if put briefly, And after that, forty. {.
“Next is sixty—[a number] divisible by three. With an extra ten, it becomes seventy
If another ten is added, The number, they say, is eighty. {.
“If another ten is added, the number is called ninety
And with another ten, it is a full one hundred
One hundred now being the base for counting, Ten of these makes one thousand. {.
“Ten thousands is one ayuta; Ten ayutas is one lakh. Ten lakhs is one vilakh (one million), And ten of these is one koṭi (ten million). {.} “Ten koṭis is one vikoṭi (one hundred million), And ten of the latter is one arbuda (one billion). Ten arbuda s is one nirbuda (ten billion), And ten of these is, as expected, one khaḍga (one hundred billion). {.} “Ten khaḍga s is one nikhaḍga (one trillion), And ten nikhaḍgas is, as expected, one kharva (ten trillion). Ten kharvas is one padma (one hundred trillion), And ten padmas is one mahāpadma (one quadrillion). {.} “Ten mahāpadma s is one vāha (ten quadrillion); Ten of these is one vivāha (one hundred quadrillion). The next after that is known as mahāvivāha (one quintillion), And ten of these is called māya (ten quintillion). {.} “Ten māyas is one mahāmāya (one hundred quintillion); Mahāmāya, after another multiplication by ten, Is termed by the guides of the world samudrā (one sextillion), As [known] in the science of algebra. {.} “The next number, after the multiplication By the ‘half of twenty,’ is mahāsamudrā (ten sextillion); Mahāsamudrā, when multiplied by ten, Is called sāgara (one hundred sextillion). {.} “When multiplied by the ‘half of twenty,’ It becomes mahāsāgara (one septillion); The latter, multiplied by ten, Is called pragharā (ten septillion). {.} “Ten pragharās, as they are called, Are proclaimed to be one gharā (one hundred septillion); Ten of the so-called gharās Are said to be one aśeṣa (one octillion). {.
“Aśeṣa, multiplied by the ‘half of twenty,’ Becomes mahāśeṣa (ten octillion)
This, according to the guides of the world, Is the limit beyond which a number is incomputable. {.
“Counting is said to rely on multiplying by ten, But then, it is an incomputable number that is multiplied
Multiplying an incomputable number by ten Gives a number even more incomputable. {.
“ This world is proclaimed to be multiplied A thousandfold infinite number of times
The cosmic unit next to this world Is a great world , which is manifolded further. {.
“Beyond that, there is the so-called darkness, And beyond that, the so-called light
After light is the so-called great light, And when this is multiplied, it is called multitude. {.
“After the multitude is the so-called great multitude
And after the great multitude is one called the deep
After the deep is one called the stable
And after the stable comes the more stable. {.
“Beyond that is the abundant, And beyond the abundant , the basis
According to those who delight in the art of enumeration, Beyond the basis is the more basic. {.
“After that comes the great basis, And the one after the great basis is known as the fixed. When we have moved from the fixed to the more fixed, The next [on the list] is known as the great thing. {.} “After the great thing there is the famous basis, And after that comes the great ocean
After the great ocean is one called the primal, And after the primal is the more primal. {.
“The one after the [more] primal is called excellent, And the one after the excellent , the most excellent
After the [most] excellent is one called dwelling place, And after the dwelling place , one known as the inconceivable. {.
“[After] the inconceivable there is the terrible; [After that,] the terrible , the kingdom
Beyond the kingdom is the home of the treasure, And beyond that is the virtuous. {.
“Beyond the virtuous is the great mind, And the next after that is the no-mind
After the no-mind is the confused mind, And after that is what is called expressible. {.
“After the expressible is the inexpressible. Next is one called the universal, And after the universal is the great universal
Next is one called asvara. {.
“After the asvara is the place of the great asvara
After which there is the kharva
The place auspicious peace is so called By those who have reached the limit of enumeration. {.
“After the very courageous is the courageous
And then one called the watery
After the watery is the confused mind
And after that, another place [called] the ultimate. {.} “Beyond the ultimate is the domain of the buddhas, With its superior levels
It is impossible for human beings to Go over all these world divisions. {.
“There is nothing that would be regarded As superior to the domain of the buddhas
Buddhafields are believed To be as numerous as the grains of sand in the Gaṅgā. {.
“Dissecting [the physical matter,] The guides [also] taught about the smallest particles
This was done by way of examples [Within] the domain of analytical investigation
Physical matter can be established through logic ( hetunā )
It cannot be established by relying [solely] on enumeration. {.
“In the past, I served fully realized buddhas Whose number matched such enumeration
I worshiped them During this inconceivable eon
In the infinity of time, I became a bodhisattva long ago. {.
“For the sake of beings, I became fully realized and attained buddhahood
I taught tantra in different places, Providing full details of the rituals. {.
“Taught by the buddhas, This supreme [manual of] rites is the best
It was taught to me in the past By so many fully realized buddhas. {.
“And now, O divine youth, I teach it myself During my final embodied existence
However many worldly mantras And auspicious kings of rites there are, {.} “However many supramundane or divine mantras there are Among men , gods, and asuras, I have explained tantric applications For all of them. {.
“This king of manuals, celebrated everywhere, Has great magical power
By applying the ritual procedures of the mantras One will attain accomplishment and become like Mañjughoṣa. {.
“It has been declared by Mañjughoṣa, The powerful lord, that by the sole means of This manual with its procedures All these [mantras] will be accomplished. {.
“It is a foregone conclusion that Whatever other deity mantras there are— All the supramundane And mundane ones of great power— {.
“They too can become accomplished By the ritual methods in this king of manuals
Mañjuśrī controls all the mantras In all the rites that have been taught— He is thus acclaimed In this supreme king of manuals. {.
“Whatever practical skills and branches of knowledge Are recognized in the world, Such as the omens taught in the art of prognostication And interpreted based on the knowledge of astrology
Whatever types of behavior are taught in the art of prognostication, Or auspicious and inauspicious sounds
{.} “Whatever voices there are of whatever creatures That betoken their thoughts and behavior; Whatever elements, sense bases, substances, . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .; {.
“Whatever so-called portents or signs, Techniques ( kriyā ) of mining minerals, Algebra, grammar, sciences, Armaments, and ritual procedures; {.
“Whatever knowledge of one’s inner being, medicine, And the welfare and happiness of all beings
Whatever art of logical argument ( hetunīti ) and other skills; Whatever established science of linguistics; {.
“And whatever prosody, music, and the art of making perfumes there are— Whatever of these have been enumerated
I, the bodhisattva, have taught them In order to benefit sentient beings. {.
“In former times, I, the bodhisattva, Knowing that they benefit beings, Taught them to the inhabitants Of the ocean of saṃsāra. {.
“Living for a long time In the dense forests of saṃsāra, I act in the way that Brings beings to maturity. {.
“I work for the benefit of beings, Creating for them stores of merit In every way that good karma Can be accumulated. {.
“Established in various activities, Beings obtain [corresponding] types of birth
I perform various activities For those limited by birth who have various needs. {.
“Beings engage in various activities, Serving the different aims described in the śāstras
I fulfill these [aims] for them, Assuming various excellent forms. {.
“I thus assume different guises, Using different bodies, be they my own or not
Motivated by [the wish] to benefit beings, I created different forms. {.
“I created, in the past, [the forms of] Maheśvara, Śakra, Brahmā, and others; Viṣṇu, Dhanada, and Nairṛta; And also the different forms of the grahas. {.
“With their minds full of great compassion, They are objects of refuge for beings
Gradually, I establish these beings In a state of peace. {.
“I wander throughout saṃsāra, Observing beings over long periods of time
Being of the nature of the mantra, I bring the fulfillment of their needs. {.
“While wandering from birth to birth, I propagate, relying in the lineage of the Buddha, Mantric rituals that represent The gradual knowledge of the mantras. {.
“For me, there is neither a creator, Nor an owner
Always relying on the lineage, I have realized the ultimate awakening. {.
“I am at ease, un-aging, peaceful, Free from worry, pure, and benevolent
I have reached the peace of nirvāṇa And liberation from the fetters of birth. {.
“Presently, the wheel that holds fast to the ultimate reality Is made to roll on
As I teach this manual That explains mantras at length
The reciter must not misuse This manual of rites in any of its details. {.
“Whatever worldly mantras there are, Their rituals have been taught accordingly
All these [mantras] should be worshiped and honored, Without any contempt whatsoever
Consequently, the practitioner of mantra Must also not disregard their [respective] rituals in any detail. {.
“As for applying the knowledge of signs That has been taught as the science of astrology, One should not interpret these [signs] incorrectly
They have been taught for good purposes, {.
“So that mundane pursuits, such as The preparation of power substances and other medicines, Or the healing [remedies] for the eyes, can succeed— They are thus described as beneficial. {.
“The sayings of the victorious ones, adorned with the stanzas of benediction, Recommend the auspicious [settings]
One should choose a day during a bright fortnight Recommended as the best and indicated by auspicious signs. {.
“With such auspicious and excellent planetary positions, One should commence the mantra practice
One should thus choose the auspicious [signs] And avoid the inauspicious. {.
“I myself taught these things in the past
The mantra reciters should therefore accept them [as true]
Whatever benefits there are in this world That can be derived from the knowledge of astrology, {.
“Or other such benefits — Those derived from polity and logi
Or those well conceived in the treatises of Nyāya For the benefit of beings— {.
“I have taught all of this And the mantra reciters should accept it [as true]
This path is the cause of accomplishment
It has been shown by those who know reality. {.
“The entire [Buddhist] canon, as taught by me, Is wholly for bringing liberation
Because of this, one should follow the path of mantras, As they are the source of accomplishment. {.
“The reciter must never, to any extent, Employ the mantras the wrong way
Be they any of the worldly mantras Or those proclaimed as supreme. {.
“When employing, in any [rites], The supramundane mantras or the divine mantras [of magic]
One must not harbor wrong thoughts And must never defile one’s mind. {.
“One should worship all the mantra [deities] Approved for those who know the right tim
And taught in the instructions of the Teacher That are founded on the sameness of all buddhas. {.
“These deities are the recourse of the victors’ sons
They are summoned and caused to enter Into the maṇḍala of the moon-like sages
They are here taught for those who know the right time. {.
“They are always effectual, and if one wishes them to enter, One can summon them with mantras
One should neither bow to submit to the mantras [deities] Of other systems, nor treat them with contempt
As it is said that the mantras that are debased Are not unproductive. {.
“Whatever worldly mantras there are, Reciting them brings inferior results
Although they produce results for reciters, They will lead, as far as can be seen, to afflictions. {.
“When one feels indignant and angry, One should not harbor wrong thoughts
Nor should one indulge in pleasures, As this brings adverse karmic results
One must not allow one’s mind To develop such inclinations. {.
“One should stick with just one mantra And recite it continuously with a focused mind. One will consequently obtain the full result As specified in the ritual instructions. {.
“Without allowing the mind to wander, One should recite the same mantra
Mantras accomplished through single-mindedness Will accomplish every purpose. {.
“One who is distracted in mind and inwardly confused Will not see success
One should instead win the full array of results And a high rebirth. {.} “One whose mind is always pure, Who trusts in the teaching
And has faith in the Three Jewels, Will obtain the accomplishment as specified.” {.
This concludes the detailed chapter that explains the knowledge of signs pertaining to the ritual activity procedures, thirty-third in “The Root Manual of Noble Mañjuśrī,” an extensive Mahāyāna sūtra that forms a garland-like basket of bodhisattva teachings
At that time the blessed Śākyamuni again directed his gaze at the realm of the Pure Abode and spoke to the divine youth Mañjuśrī as follows: {.
“Listen, Mañjuśrī, to your most esoteric and secret teaching on your mudrās and mantras
No followers of your mantra path should ever disclose this teaching to people who have no trust and no faith in the doctrine of the Tathāgata; to people who do not have the authorizing samaya or do not maintain the continuity of the lineage of the Three Jewels; to people who are in bad company; to people who do not desire religious merit; to people who interact and mix with evil companions or are surrounded by bad friends; to people who distance themselves from the Buddha’s teaching; to people who have not been instructed by their master and so this manual would bring no results for them; to people, divine youth, who have not been initiated into your supreme and most secret maṇḍala; or to people who do not observe their samaya or who have no connection to the family of the Tathāgata. {.
“One without faith in the Buddha’s teachings Is far from realization
One should not teach mudrās Nor explain the tantra to such a person. {.
“If someone stupefied by ignorance Should disclose them through carelessness, greed, and the like
The methods and mantras of such an errant reciter Will not be accomplished. {.
“One should practice the mudrās And the mantras in seclusion
Otherwise accomplishment will not come soon, And one’s body will decline. {.
“One can explain the art ( tantra ) of mudrās [Only] to those who are gentle, have faith, Are true to their samaya, And are advanced in the tantra and mantra. {.
“One can explain it to those who Worship the Three Jewels, Have faith in the doctrine of the victorious ones
And know how to apply the procedure. {.
“One can explain it to those Who are adorned with bodhicitt
And, familiar with the methods of its generation, Always pursue the path to awakening. {.} “One can explain the mudrās to those who engage In the practice of the mantras and tantras
Who observe their samaya in regard to the relative and the absolute And are committed to the great realization. {.
“One can explain the mudrās to those who have faith In the sons of the victorious ones, In the śrāvakas and the solitary pratyeka­buddhas, And who understand the results of Dharma practice. {.
“One can explain the mudrās to those Who see phenomena without conceptual contrivance
Who have faith, are free from avarice, And know how to apply the Teacher’s instructions. {.
“These mudrā seals are themselves sealed
Their exact number is one hundred and eight— No fewer and no more than that Have been proclaimed by the buddhas. {.
“[The number of] mantras In Mañjuśrī’s manual is the same
One hundred and eight mantras Have been taught, As have one hundred and eight mudrās By the eminent sages in the past. {.
“This number is the standard For the mudrās and mantras found in this manual
It is a treasury of all the buddhas Referred to as a mantra treasury
Mudrās used in combination with mantras Accomplish activities swiftly. {.
“Just as a chariot would never roll on Without wheels, So also no mantra Will accomplish its activity without a mudrā
Mantras used in combination with mudrās Accomplish activities swiftly. {.
“They can summon everyone within The entire triple universe with its gods and asuras
Let alone accomplish other activities In the cultivated world of humans. {.
“When mudrās and mantras Are used together and are pure, The results will be seen in real life. They will manifest based on the applied procedure. {.
“They can summon spirits, As well as the eminent victors along and their sons
There are three accessories that make rites effective: Mantras, mudrās, and austere meditation. {.
“The reciter can obtain Any accomplishments as desired If the mantras are sealed with the mudrās, And the mudrās with the mantras. {.
“If no mantra is without a mudrā And no mudrā without a mantra
The mudrās thus employed along with the mantras Will accomplish every activity. {.
“Mutually they produce results, Which arise in mutual dependence
If the practitioner applies them in tandem, There is no activity that could not be accomplished. {.
“All mantras will succeed if used along with mudrās By those endowed with a physical form
The mantra should be employed according to procedure And sealed with a mudrā. {.
“Even if one were to cross all the worlds From the pinnacle of existence down to Avīci Hell, There is no such place from where a being Could not be successfully summoned, {.
“Nor a place where a being could not be controlled Even though they had not been summoned
Nor is there any being Able to resist [this ritual]. {.} “Even bodhisattvas of great power can be summoned And induced to speak if the procedure is followed
They are unable to invalidate the protection procedure Or thwart the successful outcome of a rite, Even if they are established On the tenth level. {.
“Beings who rely on mantras and mudrās Are unassailable by any spirits. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
“If the procedures involving form and recitation Are employed in the rites of homa, They will be a source of accomplishment; The mudrās are assigned to the mantras. {.
“For someone who is constantly engaged in And always relies on the recitation of mantras, All the mantras will be effective
The words of the sages are not spoken in vain— {.} “Those who distort The teachings of all the buddhas Will never be able to apply The art of mantras correctly
Those who apply the teachings [correctly] Follow the procedure complete with the mantra and the mudrā. {.
“I say this, Mañjuśrī, divine youth, Again and again, that A mudrā, when complemented by a mantra, Is a source of benefit. {.
“I applaud the result derived from this king of manuals, Which is to ferry [beings] out of [saṃsāra]
The art of mudrās constitutes The most secret boon for the world.” {.
Then, smiling softly, The divine youth who is the origin of everything, Clever, glorious, and forbearing, With the form of a young boy
The bodhisattva of great courage Established on the tenth level, said, {.
“Please explain, O supreme of sages, The buddha Friend of the Sun
[Why it is] that you, O Blessed One, For the sake of mantras, teach in this world {.
“That which has already been taught to me By the fully realized buddhas in the past
Why is the Lion of the Śākyas Teaching it [again] now
This uncertainty is born [in me], So please explain [this], O supreme sage!” {.
The learned one with the sweet voice of a cuckoo That resembles the powerful voice of Brahmā Replied to the bodhisattva [Mañjuśrī], Who was established on the tenth level, {.
“Formerly, while wandering In saṃsāra over many eons, I obtained this king of manuals From the sage called Saṃkusuma. {.
“[Wandering] from place to place, I brought about much help for beings
Swayed by the power of compassion, I formed an aspiration then That I would become, during the debased eon, The supreme buddha. {.
“Having fulfilled the goal of teaching And having set the Dharma wheel rolling, In the final period Before I would pass into nirvāṇa on earth
I would teach this king of manuals In your presence. {.
“When I have departed into nirvāṇa And the world that is called Jambu is empty, When the Dharma basket of the Teacher Is difficult to find, during the lowest eon
This king of manuals would fulfill The purpose of instructing beings. {.
“This king of manuals, with its extensive contents, Is [now] entrusted to you in particular, So that it will be used, at that time, For the benefit of beings. {.
“At that terrible time, People will be without Dharma
Never following any rules, The kings will be full of ill will. {.
“Both humans and nonhuman beings Will all be hostile to the teaching
They will destroy the entire Dharma basket That I have taught. {.
“The mantra basket was taught In order to guide them
It was for you, O divine youth, that I made this aspiration Throughout inconceivable past eons: {.
“ ‘Whatever buddhas, friends of the world, have existed, Who are now in the state of nirvāṇa
I will strive to spread their doctrine Eon after eon. {.
“ ‘I will travel everywhere In the form of a young boy And guide beings In the form of the mantra, time after time.’ {.
“This aspiration, O divine youth, I made in the past for you
This has now come to pass, O youth
This is my instruction to you: {.
“When the buddhafield is empty And people are without refuge
You should instruct them, as a young boy, In the form of the mantra. {.
“You will guide many beings, Granting them every good fortune
At that time, during the debased eon, You will grant boons to all beings. {.
“When I have departed from this world into nirvāṇa, And the land has become empty
You will carry on the Buddha’s work In the form of a young boy. {.
“At that time, I will enter nirvāṇa In the delightful wilderness Of the foothills of the Himalayas, On the bank of the Hiraṇyavatī.” {.
This concludes the detailed chapter with the instructions on the procedures enhanced by the stimulus of mudrās, given in response to Mañjuśrī’s inquiry, thirty-fourth in “The Root Manual of Noble Mañjuśrī,” an extensive Mahāyāna sūtra that forms a garland-like basket of bodhisattva teachings
At that time the blessed Śākyamuni again directed his gaze at the realm of the Pure Abode and entered the samādhi called that which animates the great receptacle of mudrās of the tathāgatas 
As soon as he entered this samādhi, a great light issued from the tuft of hair between his eyebrows
This mass of light, surrounded by innumerable billions of light rays, illuminated many buddhafields, arousing all the buddhas [dwelling there], and entered back into Lord Śākyamuni’s tuft of hair. {.
As soon as they were roused, all the blessed buddhas entered the samādhi of the nature of the sky and positioned themselves in the sky above the Pure Abode
Having greeted all of them reverentially, the blessed Śākyamuni spoke to Mañjuśrī, the divine youth, as follows
“Listen, Mañjuśrī, about the procedures pertaining to the receptacle of mudrās, blessed by all the buddhas to come.” {.
Mañjuśrī, the divine youth, prostrated to the feet of the Blessed One, bowed to all the buddhas, and spoke to blessed Tathāgata Śākyamuni as follows: {.
“Very good, O Blessed One! Please teach, if you think that the time is right, the most secret chapter on the receptacle of the mudrās of all the tathāgatas
This will be for the benefit and happiness of many people. Teach it out of kindness for the world, for the welfare and happiness of great numbers of people. This will create happiness and the ripening [of the causes of] happiness for gods, men , and all beings.” {.
Being thus supplicated by Blessed Mañjuśrī, the divine youth, the blessed Śākyamuni began to teach, gazing at all the buddhas, directing his attention to all the beings
gladdening all the bodhisattvas, perfectly calming all the pratyeka­buddhas and noble śrāvakas, animating all those whose minds were occupied with the meaning of their respective mantras, keeping all the evil beings at bay, restoring confidence in all the frightened ones, and establishing in the ease of the auspicious nirvāṇa all those that were in difficult predicaments
For the happiness of all suffering beings, he taught the procedures from the chapter on the mudrās as follows: {.} “Listen, Mañjuśrī, divine youth
As I teach the chapter on mudrās. First comes the five-crested Known as a ‘great mudrā.’ {.
“One should know the three-crested as the second
And the single-crested as the third
The perfect buddhas, best of two-legged beings, Call the fourth one the utpala. {.
“The swastika is regarded as the fifth
And the banner as the sixth
Those adorned by the knowledge of mantras Call the seventh one the complete. {.
“The conquering lords of the world Called the eighth the stick
The ninth, the parasol
And the tenth, the javelin. {.
“The eleventh is called By the perfect buddhas the hollow space
The twelfth, the shield
And the thirteenth, the mace. {.
“The fourteenth is called the sword
And the fifteenth, the bell
The sixteenth is known as the noose
And the seventeenth as the goad. {.
“The auspicious seat is the eighteenth
And the nineteenth, the seat
The peacock seat is said to be the twentieth
And the three-pointed lance , the twenty-first. {.
“The one-pointed lance is the twenty-second
And the two-pointed lance , the twenty-third
The twenty-fourth mudrā is the rosary
And the twenty-fifth, the bow. {.
“The twenty-sixth is designated as The iron arrow
And the twenty-seventh Is called the even-pointed lance. {.
“The twenty-eighth is the spear ( śūla )
And the twenty-ninth, the hammer
The thirtieth is the hatchet
And the thirty-first, the fangs. {.
“The thirty-second is the mouth
And the thirty-third, the cloth
The thirty-fourth is the jar
And the thirty-fifth, the mendicant’s staff. {.
“The pitcher is said to be the thirty-sixth
And the club , the thirty-seventh
The thirty-eighth is the cross-legged posture
And the thirty-ninth, the kettledrum. {.
“What they name as the fortieth Is the Dharma conch
The chain is proclaimed To be the forty-first. {.} “The forty-second is called the highly esteemed, And the forty-third, the fulfilled wish. The forty-fourth is regarded as The mother Prajñāpāramitā. {.} “The perfect buddhas, best of two-legged beings, Call the forty-fifth the bowl. The forty-sixth is called the archway, And the forty-seventh, the fine archway. {.} “The forty-eighth is known as the voice, And the forty-ninth, the sound of recitation
The fiftieth is the drum, And the next after that, the Dharma drum. {.
“The fifty-second is the elephant
And the fifty-third, the supreme hand
The fifty-fourth mudrā should be known as The movement in the direction of that. {.
“The fifty-fifth is called the comet
The fifty-sixth, the bow and arrow
The fifty-seventh, the axe
And the fifty-eighth, the worshiped by the world. {.
“The fifty-ninth should be known, briefly, As the short javelin
And the sixtieth is designated, briefly, As the plow. {.
“The sixty-first is the padma
And the sixty-second, the vajra
The sixty-third is said, in this world, To be the revolving Dharma wheel. {.
“The sixty-fourth should be known, Briefly, as the water lily ( puṇḍarīka )
The sixty-fifth one should know As the supreme boon-granting mudrā. {.
“The sixty-sixth is called By the buddhas the rope
The knowledgeable call The sixty-seventh the spear ( kunta ). {.
“The sixty-eighth is designated As the vajra staff
And the sixty-ninth is known as The killer of hundreds. {.
“The next mudrā, the seventieth, One should know, briefly, as the boat
The seventy-first, the excellent, auspicious mudrā, Is called the palace. {.
“The seventy-second, briefly, Is called the chariot
The lords of the world call The seventy-third the resting place. {.
“The two mudrās, The seventy-fourth and the seventy-fifth, Are called, respectively, The lute and the half-moon. {.
“The seventy-sixth, in this world, Is the mudrā abode of lotuses
The superior seventy-seventh Is the mudrā birthplace of water lilies
The seventy-eighth mudrā Is called the salutation. {.
“The seventy-ninth is the drinking water And the eightieth is the foe destroyer
The eighty-first is known as the lamp And the eighty-second is designated as the joined palms. {.
“The eighty-third is called the garlan
And the eighty-fourth the seat
The eighty-fifth is taught as the place
And the eighty-sixth is the consecration
The eighty-seventh is called the initiation
And the eighty-eighth is designated as the supreme. {.
“The mudrās that are counted as the eighty-ninth And the ninetieth are both supremely auspicious; They are the hollow space and the couple, Which brings the count to ninety. {.
“The ninety-first mudrā Is called the flower, The ninety-second, the bracelet, The ninety-third is always the incense, The ninety-fourth, the perfume, And the ninety-fifth, the lamp. {.} “The ninety-sixth should be known as the formal practice, And the ninety-seventh as the sitting posture. The ninety-eighth is the summoning, And the ninety-ninth is the dismissing. {.
“The mudrā that completes the count of one hundred Is the suitable for all rites
As for the mudrās beyond these one hundred, They are known as ‘great’ mudrās. {.
“Among the uṣṇīṣa lords of the world, The most senior is always Cakravartin. His mudrā is said to be the st. The nd belongs to Sitātapatra. {.} “The rd is regarded as The root mudrā of Mañjughoṣa. The th mudrā, which constitutes the treasury of the Dharma, Has been designated as the Dharma mudrā. {.} “The th is called the saṅgha; This one, too, is a ‘great’ mudrā. The th, the pacifier of beings, Brings on [the state of] a pratyeka­buddha or an arhat. {.} “The th is the mudrā of the bodhisattvas Who have entered the tenth level
The lotus wreath by name, It is known as a ‘great’ mudrā. {.
“Among all the worldly mudrās and mantras, The boon-granting has the greatest power
It is the most exalted and excellent And worshiped throughout the triple universe. {.
“Designated as the th, This mudrā is the birthplace of the triple universe
Among the mudrās enumerated in this tantra, This one is the most powerful. {.
“The count assigned to the mudrās Is thus one hundred and eight
This number was formerly taught in song By the perfect buddhas on the earth
When the teachings of the Teacher have disappeared, These one hundred and eight mudrās will be circulated among the living. {.
“Starting again at the beginning, With the [fingers of] both hands joined at the tips, One should cross over the opposite fingers And keep them interlaced
The two hands [thus] joined Have the shape of five crests. {.
“When the tips of the fingers are thus In reverse positions, That mudrā should be known as the five-crested Or the five locks of hair. {.
“It is known as a ‘great’ mudrā, And also as the head of a bodhisattva
It possesses great power And can be employed in all rites. {.
“One can optionally employ it Together with the heart mantra of Mañjuśrī, And also with the mantra of Keśinī Or the root mantra [of Mañjuśrī]. {.
“Or, following the procedure, One can employ it with any other mantra
One will thus accomplish every rite; The Sage did not teach this in vain. {.
“Similarly, one should join the hands together With a hollow space between them
Out of this, one should form [the shape of] three crests, With the fingers interlaced. {.
“When the thumbs of both hands Cling together forming the shape of a needle, And the middle and ring fingers Are in a reverse position resembling a plait, {.
“This is known as the three-crested, Or, alternatively, as the three locks of hair
This mudrā is a ‘great’ mudrā Of the sagacious Mañjughoṣa. {.
“One can use it in all the rites Whereof the procedure is known
One can combine it With any mantra of Mañjuśrī
Such reciters will thus swiftly accomplish Their desired aims in this lifetime. {.
“To form the single-crested mudrā, One should join the hands as before
With the middle fingers touching along their sides
This is definitely the single-crested
This mudrā is a ‘great’ mudr
Taught by the fully realized buddhas. {.
“The mantras associated with Mañjuśrī, As well as the others associated with the world
Will be mastered when combined with this mudrā, And swiftly accomplish all activities. {.
“Likewise, the supreme mantras taught by the victorious ones Will be accomplished when used in combination with it
Performing the rite according to procedure, One will swiftly accomplish one’s aims. {.
“With the hands joined together as before, The fingertips ‘piled up,’ And the two index fingers bent in, One should form a shape resembling the añjali. {.
“When the two thumbs are then crossed over, The middle fingers outstretched
And the ring fingers folded in, This mudrā is called the utpala. {.
“This mudrā is indicated for use With the root mantra of the bodhisattva [Mañjuśrī]
Every rite that is sanctioned for the five-crested, Can also be accomplished with this mudrā. {.
“Any rite performed with the utpala Will bring swift success
This mudrā grants the boons And swiftly brings enjoyments
When combined with the root mantra, It will swiftly accomplish one’s aims. {.
“Similarly, one should join the hands, Stretching them upward And forming a hollow space in between With the fingers surrounding it
One should then form the auspicious symbol That has the shape of a swastika: {.
“One should keep the little fingers On the level with the middle [joints] of the middle fingers
And the thumbs crossed over — This mudrā is called the swastika. {.
“This mudrā can accomplish every purpose, And should be employed in the rites of pacifying
When combined with the six heart syllables, This mudrā will fulfill every activity. {.
“When the hands are placed as before, With the opposite fingers interlaced
This mudrā is referred to by the experts In the knowledge of destinies as the complete. {.
“When the palms are joined to form an open flower bud With the fingers kept apart in a circle, This mudrā has been specified by the perfect buddhas To the reciters as the complete. {.
“It pacifies every calamity of those Suffering from poverty or other afflictions
It swiftly brings prosperity When activated by the root mantra. {.
“Those with excellent conduct and knowledge of the world Also taught another mudrā
One should hold both hands as before, With the left index finger touching [the right hand]. {.
“Putting the right hand into position, One should bend its finger
And extend the index and the middle fingers. This is referred to as the banner. {.
“Called the banner , this mudrā, when raised, Can hold back enemies
This mudrā should be used to perform The rites of bali, homa, and so forth. If activated by the root mantra, It will accomplish every activity. {.
“One should join the hands as before, With the fingers enclosing an empty space
“Used with the understanding of the mantra, It will, in due course, accomplish the intended activity
The mantras swiftly bring success If used according to procedure. {.
“When combined with the mantras of Mañjughoṣa That originate from his very essence
[The hollow space ] will cause the intended activity To fully manifest in the world. {.
“One should put the hands together as before With the right hand above the left
Holding the right index finger, One should raise the left index finger
This mudrā, called the stick, Is capable of warding off enemies. {.
“It pacifies all the terrible And very frightening vighnas
It has been recommended to the reciters As the means of destroying all evil beings
When used in combination with the root mantra, It will swiftly accomplish one’s aims. {.
“One should position the hands as before, Forming the shape of a raised stic
And stretching out the right hand— This mudrā is called the parasol
With it one can perform the protection for the body, If one places it on the head. {.
“It may be used with any mantra In a rite designated as protective
One can cover or paralyze, as desired, The mouths of one’s enemies. {.
“One may do to evil beings, Including humans, whatever one wishes to
All the vighnas will perish Through merely seeing the parasol mudrā. {.
“Positioning the hands as before, One should form the auspicious symbol
The tips of the thumbs should touch, And the middle fingers should be extended. {.
“The tip of the folded ring finger [Should touch] the middle joint of the middle finger
This [mudrā], designated as the javelin, Wards off all evil beings. {.
“According to the lords of the world It destroys the rākṣasas and the grahas
It is displayed by Yamāntaka, The furious Lord of Wrath. {.
“This mudrā could swiftly bring The rise of terrible evils in this world
Any activities, though, that destroy life Are shunned by every buddha
One should never perform activities Forbidden by the most eminent of men. {.
“One can use the supreme javelin With any mantras of general application
In combination with this mudrā One can use any worldly mantras that have been Taught by the victorious ones, Focusing as much as one is able to. {.
“When they see this excellent mudrā, All the nairṛtas will perish, And so will the piśācas, the tārakas, The pūtanas along with the mātṛs, {.
“And the child-stealing virūpākṣas Who oppress children— All these miscreants will perish, Along with other evildoers. {.
“Positioning the hands as before To form the shape of a javelin
One should form an ‘inverted enclosure’ By interlacing one’s fingers. {.
“This mudrā is called by the perfect buddhas, Who are free from hatred, the hollow space
One should use it in the performance of activities. When this mudrā is used with the mantra One Syllable To seal off all the directions, This is called the ‘binding of the directions.’ {.
“This mudrā affords great protection While it remains enclosing the hollow space
All the miscreants perish, And so do any others who bring harm. {.
“It protects the entire body, As well as one’s retinue within the area
It always protects the entire environment Where the reciter resides. {.
“Such a reciter will not experience downfalls And nothing untoward will happen to him
Only comfort, abundant provision s, and good health
Would he have to fear even a hostile army? {.
“Pressing the hands together, One should put them in the reverse position
With the right hand below And the left one above, turned upward
When the hands are thus placed in relation to each other, The supreme victors call this mudrā the shield. {.
“This mudrā stops the malice Of wicked enemies from arising
When used in combination with the syllables of a mantra— One, two, or three —it possesses magical power. {.} “When used in combination with one-syllable mantras, This mudrā will swiftly accomplish one’s aims
It will turn the evil activities of one’s enemies Into different kinds of advantages. {.
“If combined with the root mantra, It neutralizes the poison of snakes And removes from living beings Other accidental mishaps
This excellent mudrā has been taught By the perfect buddhas, supreme among two-legged beings. {.
“One should join the hands as before, So that they touch along the fingers And form the shape of a mace That is covered at the base
It should be well covered with the small fingers Placed between the two thumbs. {.} “Using six fingers, one should then form A nicely pointed shape
This mudrā is called the mace
It destroys all the dānavas. {.} “When they see the mace mudrā, The daityas and other malevolent beings become gentle. When this highly honored mudrā is raised upward, They perish. {.
“When used in combination with the root mantra, This auspicious mudrā will swiftly accomplish one’s purpose
When the tips of the ring fingers are folded in, The same mudrā is designated as the sword. {.
“Placing the hands exactly as before And stretching them while folding in the fingertips, One should form the shape of a round vessel With the fingers placed all around
The buddhas know this mudrā as the bell, And they taught it as such to beings. {.
“One should join the hands together as before, Forming the hollow space mudrā
Then, one should interlace the opposite fingers While forming, with the middle fingers, The shape of a circle, That is, the shape of a noose. {.
“Then, when the index fingers Are crossed at the middle joint, This is called the noose — This mudrā is the magical creation of the buddha
Intended to guide beings And release them from their terrible bondage. {.
“If there are evil grahas, Or any cruel rākṣasas, This mudrā, even if activated only slightly, Will bind them, along with the mātṛs. {.
“If one utters, ‘Bind, bind!’ and so forth, This mudrā will bind even Śakra
Let alone beings in the human world That feed on carrion and pieces of flesh. {.
“One should position the hands as before, Aligning them together
The right hand should be Placed above the left. {.
“Keeping this position, the shape of a hook should be formed With the middle and index fingers
That is, the index finger should form a hook While clinging to the joint of the middle finger. {.
“Used in combination with the root mantra, This activated goad mudr
Will swiftly accomplish the activities Intended by the reciters. {.
“One will swiftly summon the lords of gods— The Brahmās, the Śakras, and so forth
This excellent mudrā, when employed, Becomes an excellent goad for drawing beings. {.
“Using both hands as before, one should join them In a reverse position, forming a round shape
One should bend the middle and ring fingers Of the left hand, {.
“And make a threatening gesture With both the index and small fingers of the right hand
It is instructed that the middle and ring fingers Of the right hand should be bent. {.
“The hands, being in reverse position, Should press against each other with their thumbs
This, the auspicious seat, Is said to be an excellent and auspicious mudrā. {.
“It is the seat of all the buddhas
It can ward off angry beings
It may be used in combination with any mantra That belongs to a family of the chief victors. {.
“[This seat,] fixed by all the buddhas And the bodhisattvas of great power, Stabilizes everything—all the worlds, Including those inhabited by gods. {.
“One should form the same auspicious seat. It should, however, rest on the middle fingers
These fingers should be extended And the hands raised up
This mudrā has been designated by the lion-like sages, Who have defeated their enemies, as the seat. {.
“One should join the hands together By interlacing the fingers
Then, with the little fingers, one should form below A pointed shape like a braid. {.
“The middle fingers should be bent, Forming the oblong shape of a lotus leaf
One should join the thumbs together, Always positioning them upright
The perfect buddhas who are free from hatred Call this mudrā the peacock seat. {.
“According to the eminent sages, This is the seat of the sagacious Bodhisattva Mañjughoṣa, Ever for his childlike enjoyment. {.
“Formerly taught by the self-arisen [buddhas], This mudrā has great power
When activated with the mantra of Mañjughoṣa, It can accomplish a variety of activities
Such as destroying evil beings— Kravyādas and piśitāśas. {.
“This completes the first twenty mudrās
More [mudrās] beyond these Were taught by the world leaders— The perfect buddhas, supreme among two-legged beings. {.
“Next I will teach the procedures Specific to the mudrās
One’s hands should be pure and clean, Washed with unsullied water. {.
“They should be sprinkled with water Suffused with white sandalwood, camphor, saffron, And many types of perfume, And then dried in the breeze. {.
“With the hands, which are clean, unimpaired, Perfect, and free of blisters —only with such hands— One should form a mudrā for saluting, and so forth, The most eminent of two-legged beings, such as {.
“Śālendra­rāja, Saṃkusumita­rāja, Amitābha, Ratnaketu, Amitāyurjñāna­viniścaya­rāja, The lord of the world Divaṃkara, {.
“Kṣema, and the lords of the world Sunetra, Dharmaketu, and Prabhāmālin— These are the names of the seniormost [tathāgatas] Who transcend this [world]. {.
“One should salute any buddha from among the above Who are superior among two-legged beings
Purified, in a clean place, One should form a mudrā during recitation. {.
“Once having examined the master, One should relinquish one’s doubts about him
Adhering to the right conduct, One should form a mudrā at ease. {.
“One should clean a [suitable] place, set it up as separate, And incant it with the mantra
One must not get angry, leave rubbish behind, Or be an object of the others’ rebukes. {.
“One should never form a mudrā Near smoldering embers or ashes
Nor should one hanker after the wives Or the possessions of others. {.
“For a mudrā to bring happiness, one should form it Neither standing up nor lying down
One should not be facing south Or west. {.
“Nor should one form a mudrā Facing upward or downward
But only facing north or east, Or the intermediate directions in between. {.
“An adept of mantras should form a mudrā Knowing that the mantra [deity] is the lord of the maṇḍala
When forming any mudrās, This procedure is regarded as supreme. {.
“Next, I will teach the mudrās Enumerated after the twentieth
One should join the hands, evenly aligned, And bring the fingers together, Pointing them toward the tips Of the middle fingers. {.
“The tips of the index and small fingers Should be placed on the joint of the index finger
The mantra adept should always do [this] With the thumbs folded and drawn in. When the hands thus form the shape of three spikes, The learned ones know this mudrā as the three-pointed lance. {.
“This excellent mudrā will quickly Break the mantras Or the mudrās of one’s adversaries
It can be used only against wicked beings. {.
“It will frighten all the spirits— The grahas, the mātṛs, and the pūtanas
And will accomplish a variety of activities
It can swiftly summon Śiva. {.
“The mantra adept can break The mantras recited by Rudra, Viṣṇu, or even Brahmā himself
If he performs the rite according to procedure. {.
“If one keeps using this mudrā— The mighty three-pointed lance — Along with a mantra that originated From the mouths of the victorious ones, {.} “One will accomplish a variety of activities
By performing the rites of crushing and destroying, One will completely destroy Any negativity created by hostile beings. {.
“One should clasp the hands together, Raising up the middle and ring fingers
The two hands should be joined, Forming the shape of a liṅga
This mudrā, known as the liṅga, Is formed using four fingers. {.
“The god Maheśvara himself Taught this mudrā and his personal mantr
In a tantra that was formerly Adopted by the Sage. {.
“He also taught at length his other Personal mantras and mudrās, Which were, at that time, Adopted in this supreme manual
But this excellent mudrā Was proclaimed the best among worldly mudrās. {.
“However many mudrās there are That were taught by Rudra on earth
This mudrā, the single liṅga, Is their lord, best of them [all]. {.
“Brought into the maṇḍala Through the bodhisattva power Of the sagacious Mañjughoṣa
[This lord of mudrās ] accomplishes the rites of homa. {.
“Whatever evil beings Roam the earth— Grahas, kravyādas, piśitāśas, Mātṛs, kaṭapūtanas— {.} “This mudrā is for restraining them
Further, this excellent mudrā is recommended For the rites of bali performed at nighttime And intended to ward off the obstacles created by Rudra
This mudrā will accomplish every activity By the power of the Buddha’s blessing. {.
“Having done this exactly the same way, but with two points, The mudrā is called the two-pointed lance
Formed in the same way, but with the fingers Arranged rosary-wise, the mudrā is called the rosary. {.
“If the [shape of] the rosary Is contracted to enclose a hollow space, With the index fingers touching And forming the shape of a bow
And the thumbs squeezed in a fist, That mudrā is designated as the bow. {.
“One should position the fingers the same way, Extend the right index finger, And also extend the left index finger
The thumb joints should be squeezed in a fist. This mudrā is called the iron arrow
The next mudrā is the even-pointed lance. {.
“[Here,] both hands should be extended With the opposite fingers clenched together
This mudrā is called the spear; It disciplines the wicked beings. {.
“Positioning the hands as before, One should make both of them into a fist
While keeping the thumbs upright. This mudrā is called the hammer. {.
“If one shifts this hammer slightly Into the space between the hands, This excellent mudrā is called the hatchet
It destroys one’s enemies. {.
“One should form the shape of a lotus With one’s ring fingers And position it between the thumbs below, So that it is not invisible. This [mudrā] is called the fangs
When [the lotus] is exposed, it is called the mouth. {.
“When the fingers of each hand Are evenly placed around And the right hand is placed on the thigh, [That mudrā] is called the cloth. {.
“One should gracefully join the hands together, Leaving a hollow space in between
The fingertips should be Mutually touching, And the ring fingers raised and folded
This mudrā is called the jar. {.
“One should join the hands forming a fist as before And raise the index fingers, Forming the shape Of a twisted mendicant’s staff
This mudrā is called the mendicant’s staff
It is the destroyer of foes. {.
“If this mendicant’s staff is slightly tilted In a graceful manner
And the two thumbs are touching, The mudrā is called the pitcher. {.
“One should raise The index and ring fingers And form, with these four fingers, The shape of a club
Those who know about mantras Call this mudrā the club. {.
“One should position the hands as before, With the middle and ring fingers [placed] below
Above them, one should always place . . . , With the right hand covering the one below. {.
“One should join the small and index fingers And wrap the thumbs around them
Forming the shape of a cross-legged posture
The tathāgatas call this mudr
The cross-legged posture, By which name it is known all over the world. {.
“Again, one should use this mudrā In combination with a mantra
It can be combined with the mantras Taught by any victorious one From the Vajra or Lotus families. This mudrā accomplishes all the peaceful activities. {.
“But the mudrās taught here, such as the club and so forth, Including the mudrās of the ‘spear’ type, All belong to the instructions Of the krodharāja Yamāntaka. {.
“These [mudrās] are fierce weapons Created to guide sentient beings
Through the bodhisattva’s power They can accomplish magical feats
The mudrās such as the jar Were taught for all the miscreants who need guidance. {.
“One should join the hands as before, Forming the shape of a kettledrum
One should then fasten the hands together By interlacing all the fingers like a plait. {.
“One should also entwine the thumbs, Placing [each] in [the opposite] hand
One should stick the index finger in the center And raise its tip. This mudrā is designated as the kettledrum
It wards off evil beings. {.
“One should join the hands as before, Forming a neat añjali gesture
Both index fingers should be drawn in, Forming a fine shape of a coil. {.
“The thumbs, bent down, Should be moved downward
When both are inside the central space, This [resembles] an auspicious conch
This excellent mudrā Is designated as the Dharma conch. {.
“It may be used in combination with the mantras Taught by the eminent sages, and is suitable for all activities
When employed together with the root mantra, It will accomplish a variety of activities
It will completely destroy the tooth venom of snakes And any beings with fangs and poison. {.
“One should make this conch complete By incanting it with the vidyārāja mantras of great power
The person fallen unconscious because of the poison Will soon become detoxified. {.
“This supreme mudrā of great power Is counted as the fortieth
Moving on, I will teach further about The mudrās and their characteristics. {.
“One should join the hands as before, Interlocking the fingertips
Further, one should snap the fingers with care And position the right hand below. When all this is done; This mudrā is called the chain. {.
“This excellent, supreme mudrā Will bind all those who harbor ill will
When used in combination With the mantras taught by the supreme sages
It will bind all the spirits, Such as the grahas, the mātṛs, and the kaśmalas. {.
“One should close the hands, open them, And raise them one after the other
Starting with this procedure, one should ‘fasten’ the hands, With the opposite thumbs and middle fingers Clinging at the middle joint, And both hands moved forward. {.
“With this mudrā, facing the fire And employing the mantra of fire
One will summon Agni during a homa rite
Or any rite that involves fire in whatever way. {.
“[The god of] fire will be promptly summoned When this mudrā is employed
One should dismiss him with the same mantra, While bringing together the tips of the index fingers. {.
“When one is dismissing the fire deity, The thumbs must be joined together. This mudrā, the highly esteemed, Accomplishes the rites involving fire. {.
“It will summon the deities As required by the reciters Who highly esteem this mudrā, Praising it as endowed with the buddhas’ blessing
When combined with the supreme mantras, This mudrā will accomplish a variety of activities. {.
“With the hands joined together And the fingers touching, One should form, with an añjali gesture, A complete bud that is loose and round in shape. {.
“When it is completely full Like a bud born of a lotus plant, One should know this as the fulfilled wish — The mudrā that accomplishes all aims. {.
“This excellent, supreme mudrā, Formerly taught in song by the tathāgatas
Is employed in [the rites of] Mañjughoṣa To fulfill beings’ good wishes. {.
“Whatever wish a being may have in mind That aims for something beneficial Will soon be fulfilled [by this mudrā], If it is combined with powerful mantras
This excellent, supreme mudrā Is named the fulfilled wish. {.
“This excellent, supreme mudrā Accomplishes all activities
It magically empowers ( sādhayate ) A wide range of mantras and substances. {.
“This mudrā was spread [in the world] Like moonlight by the moon-like Sage
It has been auspiciously linked up by him To the moon-like mantras in the Lotus family
They will accomplish a variety of activities, Whatever may be desired by the mantra adepts. {.
“When both hands are upraised, With the index finger raised And the tip of the middle finger slightly bent, This is the archway. {.
“If both [fingers] are raised, That mudrā is called the fine archway
When they are mutually interlaced, This is the [forty-]eighth mudrā, the voice
When the thumbs are raised, The wise ones know this as the supreme sound of recitation. {.
“One should raise the hands as before, Folding the fingertips in And expanding the fingers As splayed hair. The wise ones know this mudrā as the drum, And when [the fingers] are raised, As the Dharma drum. {.
“With the right palm pointing up And laying on top of the left One should create below The nice form of an elephant. {.
“With the right middle finger One should form the shape of an [elephant’s] trunk
Those who have transcended saṃsāra Designate this mudrā as the elephant. {.
“This mudrā is proclaimed By the perfect buddhas as a ‘great’ mudrā
It accomplishes all activities, each and every one completely, And is worshiped throughout the world. {.
“Raising up the right hand, One should display the mudrā of fearlessnes
And grasp it, at the wrist, With an upraised left hand. {.
“The middle and index fingers should touch each other, With the thumb stuck in between
“If one entwines the same fingers, With the thumbs placed above, And places the joints against the palms of the hands, That mudrā is called the comet
The same mudrā, but with the fingertips raised, Is called the bow and arrow. {.
“One should join together the index fingers, Entwining their fingertips. The thumbs should be contracted at their joints And the small fingers outstretched
This mudrā is designated as the axe
It accomplishes all activities. {.
“If one then folds in all [the fingers], That mudrā is the worshiped by the world
If one raises this [mudrā] up, Forming a ‘needle point’ with the tip of the index finger, The mudrā becomes the short javelin
If [this mudrā] assumes a circular form, it becomes the plow. {.} “The plow is a supreme mudrā Formed by bending the index fingers
It completes the first sixty mudrās Repeated here along with instructions. {.
“All these mudrās are weapons Used along with and activated by mantras
They remove the problems created by vighnas And destroy grahas, kuṣmāṇḍas, mātṛs, {.} “All the chief rākṣasas, And all those who terrorize children. These mudrās, serving as weapons, Destroy all of them. {.
“I have now taught the characteristics Of the [first] sixty mudrās
Now I will give the instructions For the [next] mudrās. {.
“Putting the hands together as before, One should raise them, forming the shape of a lotus With all the fingers outstretched; This mudrā is known as the padma. {.
“This excellent mudrā is said To belong to the Lotus family
Used in combination with any mantras of the same family, It will produce auspicious results. {.
“Being a source of the buddhas’ blessing, It is said to accomplish activities swiftly
It will make effective any mantra That belongs to the Lotus family
Among the mudrās, this mudrā, the padma, Is taught for the middling [rites]. {.
“One should join the two hands together, Stretching out the index fingers And joining the middle fingers, Thus forming the vinyasta shape. {.
“When, in the same [mudrā], the thumbs are placed Against the joints of the middle fingers, That mudrā is called the vajra
It is the supreme mudrā for minor [rites]. {.
“Whatever mantras belong to the Vajra family, They will be rendered efficacious if sealed [with this mudrā]
If used according to procedure, They are known to bring success swiftly. {.
“By employing them, the practitioner will always accomplish Whatever activity he has set out to perform
He will always obtain accomplishment, Whether a supreme, medium, or minor one
All the worldly mantras Will be successful without any doubt. {.
“One should join the hands together, Stretching out the middle fingers
The ring fingers and the thumbs should be folded in And the small fingers should form a ‘needle.’ {.} “The two index fingers should be touching lengthwise, Their tips folded in at the middle joint
The middle fingers, aligned to form a ‘needle,’ Should form the shape of a circle. {.
“This mudrā, the Dharma wheel, Is here taught as the king of mudrās
It was taught by the Dharma kings For the Dharma wheel to turn. {.
“The seventh moon-like sage designated it, At that time, as the ‘wheel’ for pacifying
“All the worldly mantras Taught by Viṣṇu or Śiva Can be annihilated by reciters Who employ this mudrā, through merely seeing it. {.
“This excellent, supreme mudrā Originates from the sphere of phenomena
It accomplishes all activities As desired by sentient beings. {.
“It has been taught by the king of Dharma To [accomplish the activity] of pacifying
It will also accomplish all the rites taught In this excellent, supreme manual of rites
This mudrā is called the Dharma wheel, And belongs to the teachings of Mañjughoṣa. {.
“Among all the mudrās, this one should be employed As the one best suited for the rites of pacifying
The mantra practitioners always view this mudrā As an auspicious wheel. {.
“One should join the hands as before, Leaving an empty space in between
Then, loosening up the fingers that form the sheath, One should cup the hands gracefully. This mudrā is known as the water lily; It accomplishes all aims. {.
“One should put the [right] hand down, Opening the fist and extending the fingers. When the hand is thus fully outstretched, This mudrā is called the boon-granting. {.
“Using both hands again, One should position the fingers To form the pattern of a plait on all sides; This mudrā is called the rope. {.
“Extending again the same hand— The superior right hand— One should form the shape of a ‘needle’ With the middle and index fingers. {.
“The fingertips of the other fingers Should be slightly bent. One should prop up the index finger, Positioning it appropriately. {.
“The two fingers that touch alongside Should lean against the joint of the ring finger
The guides of the world Most often refer to this mudrā as the spear. {.
“One should join the hands as before, With each index finger forming a ‘needle.’ Each hand should form an identical fist With the fingers arranged the same way
The wise call this mudrā The vajra staff. {.
“One should join the hands as before, Enclosing an empty space in between
The fingers, arranged as in the añjali gesture, Should tightly press against each other
When the two thumbs are tucked in, This mudrā is called the killer of hundreds. {.
“If one then positions both hands In such a way that there is a complete concavity, And forms the añjali gesture Resembling a sailing vessel, {.
“The benefactors of the threefold universe Call this mudrā the boat
It delivers beings from The great ocean of saṃsāra. {.
“If one subsequently releases the añjali And forms the citrahasta gesture
Those who cause beings to move upward Call this mudrā the palace. {.
“When the hands thus positioned are contracted, This is called the chariot
[This mudrā] is the supreme threefold vehicle Called by the world protectors the chariot. {.
“It brings all beings onto The mantra path of the reciters
Having resorted to this supreme vehicle, They travel the path to buddhahood. {.
“One should shake the hands loose, Repeating this [a few times], And then form the citratala gesture In the shape of a bench. {.
“This excellent, supreme mudrā Is venerated by the lords of the world
The sons of the victorious ones Call it the resting place of all the buddhas. {.
“The fully realized buddhas of the past Attained peace by relying on this mudrā
They have been delivered into the sphere of nirvāṇa Wherein they found their resting place
This mudrā is therefore called By the guides of the world the resting place. {.
“One should place the hands as before, With the fingers touching at the same level And forming a sheath around an empty space
The index finger of the right hand Should be bent at the tip. This mudrā is called the crescent moon. {.
“Using both hands again, One should enclose the right thumb in a fist
The fist should be formed With all the fingers of the left hand Evenly aligned and bent at the tip, Thus embracing the right thumb. {.
“The fingers of the right hand, joined together, Should enclose an empty space, And the small finger should be extended; This mudrā is called the lute. {.
“Using both hands again, One should splay the fingers in space
Each index finger should be touching The middle of the thumb
The perfect buddhas disseminated this mudrā To the world as the abode of lotuses. {.
“When the thumbs are subsequently raised up, The mudrā becomes the birthplace of water lilies
It was taught in the world By the perfect buddhas, supreme among two-legged beings. {.
“One should make the añjali gesture In salutation to the teacher of the world. This mudrā is known all over the world As the salutation. {.
“The same mudrā, when the two hands Are propped up to form a pair, Is known throughout the three worlds As the couple. {.
“When the hands are slightly lowered, With the thumbs tightly squeezed, That mudrā is the hollow space
It destroys sorrow and weariness. {.
“All these mudrās that are described here— Those that constitute weapons, Those that have the names of flowers, Or furniture for resting, or instruments, and so forth— All of them collectively can accomplish anything, If combined with the mantras as has been taught. {.
“There is no need to observe the right lunar days, Planetary configurations, or fasts
If the mudrās and the mantras are used in combination, They will swiftly accomplish any activity. {.
“For an experienced reciter who has developed the energy ( tapas ), It is enough merely to recite the mantra
When the mudrā and mantra are combined, though, There is nothing that cannot be accomplished. {.
“Using both hands again, One should join them in the añjali gestur
And extend sideways the small and the ring fingers and the thumb; This mudrā is called the incense. {.
“One should join the bent index finger With the three joints of the middle finger
The three pairs of the opposite fingers Should be interlaced. {.
“The tips of the index fingers should touch, Inclined toward the thumbs
The añjali shape thus formed Is designated as the flower mudrā. {.
“The palms of the hands should face upward, With the small fingers interlaced
The ring fingers should be intertwined behind [the palms], And the middle fingers should be joined behind them. {.
“The two index fingers should also be interlaced, Touching the ground with the palm
When the two thumbs are placed close together, This is taught to be the Dharma mudrā. {.
“Using as the basis the añjali gesture, One should slightly bend the index fingers
This mudrā is the common bali mudrā Passed down by the protectors of the world. {.
“Inside [this mudrā] one should place flowers Of various kinds, as available
And offer them while reciting mantras In all bali rites. {.
“One should display with the right hand The mudrā of granting fearlessness
With the left, one should grasp The right hand around the wrist
This mudrā is called the perfume; It may be used with any mantra. {.
“One should make the right [and left] hands into fists. Always [joining] the thumbs and the middle fingers, One should form [with the thumb] the shape of a needle
This mudrā is called the lamp. {.
“The ring finger and the thumb should be positioned As if for turning rosary beads
The small finger should always be extended With the middle finger lying on top of it, And the index finger should be folded in
This mudrā is called the bead. {.
“The mantra adept should place A rosary of beads between the palms joined in añjal
And recite the mantra according to their wish— This will swiftly effect the fulfillment of wishes
Always employed according to procedure, This mudrā is effective [in combination] with any mantra. {.
“[In the rites involving] fire, one should display, With the right hand in front, the mudrā of fearlessness
Positioning it to face the fire, One should always fold in the index finger. {.
“The thumb should be placed against the hand, Curled in the center [of the palm]
This mudrā has been designated For summoning Jātavedas. {.
“When the tips of the index fingers are bent And the thumbs joined together as one, This is the dismissing mudrā; It is recommended for the all the rites involving fire. {.
“The wise practitioner should perform The rite of homa for every mantra [deity]
The mantra, appropriate for the rites involving fire, Should be used in combination with these [two] mudrās. {.
“One should form the gesture of salutation, añjali, With all the fingers folded in
One should do this in reverse, With the thumbs crossed over. {.
“The folded index fingers, projecting outwardly, Should rest on the middle fingers
This mudrā, described as the most excellent, Can be employed in all acts of making offerings. {.
“One should salute every mantra[-deity] And the mantra-lord of the sons of the victorious ones
And offer, to every such deity, A fine seat. {.
“If flowers are unavailable, One should form and use this mudrā
The mantra[-deities], worshiped according to procedure, Will fulfill all aims. {.
“When this mudrā is employed, The aim of worship is accomplished better
As for the second, the mental offering, One can offer any type of flowers. {.
“This worship procedure was taught By the fully realized buddhas, supreme among two-legged beings
The worship may be of two kinds, [Either with or] without the flowers. {.
“To make all the mantras fully effective in all rites, One should employ this mudrā
The suitable for all rites — Taught by the fully realized buddhas. {.
“[It can be used] when sitting, Lying down, bathing, drinking, eating, Decorating, lighting lamps, reciting mantras, Or creating a maṇḍala at a specific location. {.
“It activates the bond with all the mantra[-deities], Thus conferring blessings on the mantra practitioner
This mudrā, the suitable for all rites, Was taught by the lords of the world. {.
“The first one hundred mudrās have now been taught, Following the required order
Now I will teach the eight mudrās That come next. {.
“One should use both hands, Starting from the same position
The index fingers should be placed exactly as before, Joined with the ‘needle’ of the middle fingers. {.
“The two fingers should touch At the third knuckle below the nail [of the middle finger]
One should thus display the shape of a needle, While forming a sheath [with one’s hands]
This is the mudrā of the mantra-lord, The great Cakravartin. {.
“If the same index fingers are brought into contact With the middle finger sidelong
And the ring fingers touch At the tips of the fingernails
That mudrā is the uṣṇīṣa; It was taught by the victorious lords. {.
“One should place the hands as before, With the middle fingers entwine
And the small fingers joined together; This mudrā is called the arising of Sitātapatra. {.
“One should align the tips of the middle fingers So that their fingernails touch
When the shape of a bracelet is formed, The mudrā is said to be the great mudrā. {.
“One should place the tips of the index fingers . . . with the three . . . The middle fingers should form a ‘needle,
With the hands firmly joined below. {.
“The thumbs should reach [to the middle fingers], With their nails squeezed [under the third joint thereof]
This mudrā is taught as the most excellent mudrā Of the sagacious Mañjughoṣa. {.
“One should place the hands as before, Forming the añjali gesture
The tips of the middle fingers Should remain bent
“Both hands should be splayed, With the eight fingers forming an enclosure
These eight, divided into four pairs, Represent the eight personages who know reality
The perfect buddhas, supreme among two-legged beings, Call this mudrā the saṅgha. {.
“This mudrā is known In the realm of existence as the saṅgha
It is supreme and excellent, As it accomplishes the aims of all activities. {.
“One should cup the hands, Joining them together in an añjali gesture
And then extend the index finger Of the right hand. {.
“This mudrā, the pacifier of beings, Was taught by the teachers who see reality
It is described as excellent, As it fulfills the aims of all activities. {.
“One should place the hands as before, Their fingertips ‘piled up’ in a line
The hands should form a lump, hollow within, With the thumbs raised up and bent
This mudrā, the lotus wreath, Was taught by the buddhas from the earliest times. {.
“The palms of the hands should face upward, With the fingers splayed around
The hands should form the shape of a fully open bud, With the thumbs and three other fingers fully extended. {.
“The thumbs and the index fingers Should touch at the second joint
The fully realized buddhas call this excellent mudrā The abode of the Thirty[-Three]. {.
“These [last] eight mudrās, designated as ‘Great’ mudrās, are suitable for peaceful rites. Taught by the fully realized buddhas, They are of equal splendor and great efficacy. {.
“The spontaneously arisen Eminent sages of the past, Who are beyond counting, Taught sixty quadrillions and eighty mudrās. The practical instructions Were given for  mudrās. {.
“With all of them available, One can accomplish all the mantra-rites
“These one hundred [and eight] mudrās were taught By all the buddhas of great power
If employed according to procedure, They will swiftly accomplish all aims.” {.
Having thus spoken, the most eminent of sages, The Lion of the Śākyas, supreme among men
Then specifically addressed Mañjughoṣa, The bodhisattva of great power: {.
“This collection of the different sets of mudrās Found in your manual Was handed down by yourself, Mañjuśrī, To protect [the Buddha’s] instructions on eart
At the time when the final period has arrived And I have departed into nirvāṇa. {.
“I have now taught all of it In order to protect my doctrine— I taught the defining characteristics Of the mudrās and the mantras at length
This esoteric and secret lore Has now been taught for all of the world. {.
“It has been taught in this sūtra—the lord of manuals That is replete with excellent qualities That arise in multiple ways Based on the letters of the mantras. {.
“Many applications of mantra and tantra Have been explained in it
[This sūtra] constitutes for the reciters the cause Of a definitive accomplishment of glorious qualities. {.
“It is said that auspicious results will arise For beings, whatever destinies they follow
If they apply themselves to the cause Of accomplishing your mantras, O divine youth!” {.
Thus addressed, the divine youth Mañjuśrī, Resting in space
Bowed his head to the perfect Buddha, The sun-like lord of the world. {.
He sighed deeply, tender with compassion, And then began to weep piteously
He moved close to the Buddha And asked about the supreme boon: {.} “When the mantra basket [of teachings] Has disappeared in the world and on earth, How will beings be able to ensure An auspicious course of rebirth?” {.
Being thus asked, the perfect buddha Spoke to Mañjughoṣa as follows
“Listen, dear Mañjuśrī, divine youth, If you are asking
When I have passed from this world into final nirvāṇa And the earth is devoid of a buddha
When the basket of the Dharma has disappeared And [all] the śrāvakas have long ago entered nirvāṇa, {.
“At that time, [beings] should make An image of the Teacher, best of two-legged beings, And offer to it, respectfully, Incense, fragrances, scented oils, {.} “Different types of high-quality clothes, And other things, such as jeweled earrings, adornments, And sacrificial food consisting of Different types of solid and liquid articles That come in different forms
According to the maker’s choice. {.} “The destiny of beings who repeat the mantra While doing these things will be auspicious. They will reach exalted abodes And the highest birth
They will eventually attain awakening And obtain the subsequent peace.” {.
Buoyed up by the perfect Buddha, Mañjuśrī rejoiced at his words
The sagacious bodhisattva of great power Remained very joyful afterward. {.} All that was taught in former times Was now set to continue above the realm of the Pure Abode. The Buddha, turner of the wheel of Dharma, Turned, in the presence of the buddhas, The wheel of the mantra [path], Letting it roll for a long time. {.
This concludes the detailed chapter on mudrā procedures, thirty-fifth in “The Root Manual of Noble Mañjuśrī,” an extensive Mahāyāna sūtra that forms a garland-like basket of bodhisattva teachings
At that time the blessed Śākyamuni again directed his gaze at the realm of the Pure Abode and spoke to Mañjuśrī, the divine youth
“There is, Mañjuśrī, a most secret mudrā presentation that includes your root mudrā and its assorted mudrās. [These mudrās] may be employed in all rites. In short, they bring every kind of good fortune and produce results
they supplement every mantra and accomplish the aim of every activity. {.
“To start, one should extend the hands in the añjali gesture, with the index and the ring fingers folded in at the middle joint and the fingers not touching
This, Mañjuśrī, is described as your root mudrā; it is suitable for all rites. {.
“If one joins the hands the same way, but with the ring, index, and middle fingers touching closely and the small fingers positioned along an upward line toward the tips of the thumbs, this
Mañjuśrī, is another mudrā of yours, called the mouth. {.
“If one makes a fist in such a way that the facing fingers touch, extends the middle fingers to form the shape of a needle, and places the two index fingers in such a way that they surround this [needle] on either side
this, Mañjuśrī, is your mudrā called the fangs. {.
“If one [subsequently] positions the thumbs on either side, that mudrā is you, Mañjuśrī, in person
You remain contained in that place, in the cavity between the hands, as the blessing of the samaya. {.
“If one stretches out the index fingers of the mutually touching fists and positions both thumbs in the space in between, this, Mañjuśrī, is another one of your mudrās, [called] the crest. {.
“If one extends the hands in the añjali gesture and places the index finger, crossed at the joints with the ring finger, between the tips of the middle fingers, this, Mañjuśrī, is another root mudrā that is said to be yourself in person. {.
“If one forms the same mudrā as before, but with the index fingers extended, this, Mañjuśrī, is your eye mudrā. {.
“If the small and ring fingers are entwined and positioned in the cavity between the hands, the middle fingers are placed on the outside with their tips folded in above the index fingers, and the tips of the thumbs press against each other, this, Mañjuśrī, is yet another mouth mudrā of yours. {.
“Proceeding in the same way, one should loosen up the fingers one by one—all of them, including the thumbs—and then extend them one by one, with the right thumb raised up
This, Mañjuśrī, is your uṣṇīṣa mudrā. {.} “When the right . . . is curled and the left extended, that [same mudrā] becomes the forehead mudrā; seeing it, all the wicked grahas will flee. {.} “In the same way [one should form the mudrās of] the ears, neck, arms, heart, hands, throat, hips, navel, thighs, calves, feet, eyes, mouth, and tongue
By extending the ten fingers one after the other, one will display the mudrā signs in their respective order
They accomplish their respective activities: {.
“A mouth mudrā will shut [the opponent’s] mouth
The fangs mudrā will effect release from the wicked grahas
The tongue mudrā will suppress evil talk
The heart mudrā will appease the king’s anger, or the anger of any other displeased being— a god or asura, or any other human or nonhuman being born in whatever form
In this way, one can successively accomplish all activities in all respects. {.
“Following this pattern, there are innumerable mudrās
Accordingly, Mañjuśrī, you can accomplish every activity whatsoever. All activities arise because of all these mudrās
These great mudrās are used by tathāgatas impossible to count, great heroes and protectors
and also by the great heroes who have reached all the higher levels that transcend the world—ever and ever beyond it—where myriads [of them abide]
They are the thirty-six . . . eighty . . . nine . . . five . . . who are sixty billion in number. {.
“All the rites involve mudrās, Including all the worldly rites. If performed using these and other mudrās, These rites can accomplish the aim of any practice. {.
“The mudrās are formed with both hands At the time of practice within the maṇḍala
Whether one is doing the preliminary practice, The homa [rite], or during recitation. {.
“A vow holder may recite while sitting, Standing, or however they wish
One should perform all the activities Always relying on the full repertoire of the mudrās And employing the ritual procedure Of the great protection for oneself and others.” {.
This concludes the detailed second chapter on mudrā procedures, thirty-sixth in “The Root Manual of Noble Mañjuśrī,” an extensive Mahāyāna sūtra that forms a garland-like basket of bodhisattva teachings
At that time the blessed Śākyamuni again directed his gaze at the realm of the Pure Abode and spoke to Mañjuśrī, the divine youth, as follows: {.
“There is, Mañjuśrī, in your root manual, another most secret mudrā
Its ritual procedure [represents] the entire mudrā system
It accomplishes all rites and purifies the path to perfect awakening. It destroys all the paths that lead to saṃsāric existence
The index fingers should form a ‘needle.’ This is the great mudrā called the great representation of the uṣṇīṣa surrounded by light 
The corresponding mantra is Oṁ , burn, blaze up! O blazing Udgatoṣṇīṣa! Make [them] tremble, do! Hūṁ! {.} “If one brings the same index fingers into contact with the ‘needle’ formed by the middle fingers and joins them at the tips of the fingernails so that they form the shape of a straightened anklet, this is the mudrā of the uṣṇīṣa [king] Sitātapatra
The corresponding mantra is: “ Oṁ, ma ma ma ma, hūṁ niḥ! {.} “If, subsequently, the same index fingers are evenly raised so that they cling to the ‘needle’ formed by the middle fingers, this is the mudrā of Tejorāśi
The corresponding mantra is: “ Oṁ Tejorāśi ! You are the uṣṇīṣa of the tathāgatas, invisible on their head! Blaze, blaze! You are one and unique! Rip and tear! Chop and split! Hūṁ hūṁ, sphaṭ sphaṭ, svāhā! {.} “If the tips of the same index fingers are joined, forming the shape of the circle, while the middle fingers form the ‘needle,’ this is the mudrā of Jayoṣṇīṣa
The corresponding mantra is: “ Oṁ Jayoṣṇīṣa ! Blaze, blaze! Bind, bind! Tame, tame! Ṅraṁ ṅraṁ ṅraṁ, haḥ ! Strike! Hūṁ! This is the mantra of Jayoṣṇīṣa. {.
“If the tips of the same index fingers are brought in contact with the ‘needle’ of the middle fingers above the nail and cling to them at the third phalanx, this is the mudrā of [the uṣṇīṣa king] Cakravartin 
The corresponding mantra is: “ Oṁ , homage to Cakravartin , the invincible uṣṇīṣa of the tathāgatas, invisible at the top of their head, hūṁ ! Blaze, blaze! Burn, burn! Make [them] tremble, make! Drive [them] away! Frighten [them]! Kill [them]! Uproot [them]! Strike, strike! Aṁ aṁ aḥ aḥ kaḥ kaḥ ! O Proṅkhinī, Proṅkhinī! The unconquerable bearer of arms, adorned with earrings! Hūṁ phaṭ! “[This is the mantra of] Cakravartin. {.
“If the tips of the same index fingers are brought into contact with the ‘needle’ of the middle fingers under the fingernail and cling to them along the third phalanx, this is the mudrā of Cakravartin , the lord of mantras
If the index fingers are brought into contact with the ‘needle,’ touching it under the fingernail, this is the mudrā of the lord of mantras. {.
“If the tips of the same index fingers are brought together and remain in contact in the space between the fingernail phalanges of the needle-shaped middle fingers, this is the mudrā of Mahācakravartin
If the tips of the same index fingers are brought together and mutually touch below the third phalanx of the needle-shaped middle fingers, forming thus the shape of a circle, this is [another] mudrā of Mahācakravartin
If the tips of the same index fingers are brought together and mutually touch in the space between the third phalanges of the needle-shaped middle fingers, this is [another] mudrā of Mahācakravartin, the lord of mantras. {.
“If the tips of the same index fingers are made into the shape of an anklet with each tip touching the third joint [of the opposite finger(?)] and are positioned below the middle joint of the needle-shaped middle fingers, this is the heart mudrā of the cakravartin Aparājitoṣṇīṣa. The corresponding mantra is: “ Oṁ Aparājita, dhik! “Using the root and other mudrās of the uṣṇīṣa kings as an auxiliary practice one will accomplish all activities. {.} “If one extends the tips of the thumbs up to the [base of] the ring fingers and raises [the hands], this is the mudrā of summoning. The corresponding mantra is: “ Homage to the blessed, invincible uṣṇīṣa ! Come, come, O blessed Dharma lord! Take this welcome offering of water, fragrances, flowers, incense, refreshments, and lamps, and protect me! Svāhā to you, one of invincible strength and power
“These were the mudrā and the mantra of dismissing with the respective offerings. {.
“The same index fingers should touch below at the third joint of the needle-shaped middle fingers
The opposite thumbs, together with the small fingers, should form a tight fist. The middle fingers should form a ‘needle.
The corresponding mantra is: “ Oṁ blessed, invincible uṣṇīṣa! Oṁ oṁ, hrauṁ ! Bind, hūṁ phaṭ
“The great vidyārāja Vikaraṇoṣṇīṣa can be employed in all the rites belonging to the uṣṇīṣa system of the blessed vidyārāja , such as destroying all the vighnas and vināyakas, conferring empowerments, self-protection, binding the directions, binding the maṇḍala, and so forth. {.
“If the same index fingers are extended outward with the tips folded in and are moved in a pulling motion
[this is the mudrā] for summoning [the god of] fire for the purpose of homa
The same mudrā [is used also] for dismissing, if the index fingers are stretched forth
This is the mudrā of Jvālā­mālinoṣṇīṣa. It is invincible in every rite. The corresponding mantra is: “ Homage to the blessed, invincible uṣṇīṣa ! Come, come! Svāhā to Agni, one who is garlanded with flames! {.} “If the same index fingers are folded at the tips and are joined together in the space between the needle-shaped middle fingers at the third joint
this is the mudrā of Balotkaṭoṣṇīṣa
The corresponding mantra is: “ Homage to the blessed, invincible uṣṇīṣa ! Accept these fragrances, flowers, incense, refreshments, and lamps! Take [them], take. Svāhā to you, invincible Dharma king! “This is the mantra for offering fragrances, and so forth. {.
“If the ring fingers are in reverse position, the thumbs joined at the third joint, and the index fingers form the shape of a needle, this is the mudrā of Vajratejoṣṇīṣa
Unassailable by any vināyakas, it should be used to restrain them and, also, for making the time and the place salutary. One can thus use this mudrā and its mantra to afford protection at the time of recitation, formal practice, or the maṇḍala [ritual]. They can be used in all activities
The mantra is: “ Homage to the blessed, invincible uṣṇīṣa who destroys all the vighnas! Destroy [them]! Svāhā! {.} “If the ring fingers [each] form a circle [touching] the base of the thumb, and the index fingers form the shape of a needle
this is the mudrā of Aparājitoṣṇīṣa, invincible in every way
The corresponding mantra is: “ Homage to the blessed, Aparājitoṣṇīṣa that can never be defeated! O great vidyā ! You are the samaya, peaceful and restrained, taught by the Dharma king! You fulfill all aims, svāhā! “One should perform, [using this mudrā and mantra], the rites of pacifying and nourishing, while offering homas of ghee, and so forth. {.
“If the same ring fingers are folded into a circular shape, and the folded tips of the index fingers press against each other, this is the mudrā of Śaṅkaroṣṇīṣa
The corresponding mantra is: “ Homage to the blessed invincible uṣṇīṣa! Oṁ, svāhā to Śaṅkara! “[This mantra and mudrā] afford protection in every rite. {.
“If the tips of the thumbs are placed upon the third joint of the ring fingers, and the index fingers form the shape of a needle
this is the mudrā of Samayoṣṇīṣa, invincible as a vajra and applicable to every type of samaya
The corresponding mantra is: “ Homage to the blessed, invincible uṣṇīṣa! Oṁ , the samaya for prosperity! Svāhā! {.
“If the tips of the thumbs are placed upon the middle joint of the ring fingers, and the index fingers, with their tips folded in, cling to the middle joint of the needle-shaped middle fingers, this is the mudrā of the invincible Mahā­samayoṣṇīṣa
When employed against the gods and the asuras, this [mudrā] establishes them in the samaya
The corresponding mantra is: “ Homage to the blessed, invincible uṣṇīṣa! Oṁ , the great samaya for prosperity! Svāhā! {.
“Having bound the maṇḍala with this mudrā, one may recite, ‘Abide in the samaya, abide!’ addressing even the emperor; one may subdue other emperors, too
While mantras are being recited at that very place, whether worldly or supramundane, none will interfere with another or neutralize its power
[This is true] for all the reciters in a particular place
Starting with those just mentioned, there are innumerable uṣṇīṣa kings—one should practice the entire Tathāgata family at length. {.
“Further, Mañjuśrī, there are, in this king of manuals, mantras that are infinitely profound and mudrās of many different kinds. I will now teach them in brief
If I were to explain them in detail, no human or nonhuman being, not even in a thousand eons, would be able to grasp or remember them
I will therefore, Mañjuśrī, teach them in brief
Keep all of this in your memory. {.
“The heart mudrās of the Sage Are the most excellent taught in this manual
After them, there are the mudrās Of the cakravartin deities who surpass all gods. {.
“The mudrās of the moon-like Avalokiteśvara, Of the sagacious bodhisattva [Mañjuśrī], And of Vajrapāṇi, the king of yakṣa s, Are said to be next. {.
“After them come other mudrās Of great power and energy
Namely all those of the hosts of dūtas and dūtīs, Followed by those of the ceṭas and ceṭīs, {.} “The celestial yakṣa s and yakṣiṇīs, The nāga s and nāginīs, The kiṃkaras and kiṃkarīs, And the piśācas and piśācīs; {.
“Of the powerful rākṣasīs And other celestial ladies; And of the wives of the daityas, Of all the siddha s and vidyādharas, {.
“And of all the human and nonhuman beings Born in the threefold universe — In short, the mudrās of all beings That are designated to them individually. {.
“Mantras, too, are of many types, Accomplishing a variety of activities. Whether in the Royal or Jewel families, These mantras each have a corresponding mudrā. {.
“The mudrās of the arhats or the pratyeka­buddhas Both bring splendid results
As for all the bodhisattvas, Established on the ten levels, {.
“Their heart mudrās and mantras Are taught individually
The mudrās in the family of the divine yakṣa, A family worshiped by the ṛṣis and the gandharvas; {.
“The mudrās taught as belonging to the seventh family And relating to the gandharvas
And likewise the mudrās in the eighth family, Are [all] said to be for their [respective] families. {.
“All the mudrās thus enumerated, And the others named after the sugatas
Are individually paired with mantras, Both worldly and those related to the sugatas. {.
“A mantra employed together with a mudrā Is exceptionally powerful in the performance of rites
The vināyakas will stay away from those who Skillfully employ mudrās and so forth. {.
“Now the descriptions of these and other such great mudrās will be given
First come the descriptions of the heart mudrās of the blessed buddhas. {.
“One should hold the fingers of both hands together, with the thumbs exposed to view
This is the heart mudrā of the tathāgatas
The same mudrā, but with only the right thumb showing, is the mudrā of Padmadhara
If one first makes the left and right hands into fists, and then relaxes and extends both the middle fingers to form the single form of a vajra, this is the mudrā of Vajradhara. {.
“If one inclines the pointed tip [of the vajra] down, this is the mudrā of the bodhisattva Gandhahastin
If one subsequently raises [the hands] up and forms the shape of a circle, this is the mudrā of Gajagandha
If one then folds in one phalanx of each [middle finger], this is the mudrā of the Jewel family
It may be employed, in combination with the mantras of Jalendra and so forth, [to invoke] Jambhala and all the spirits of the Jewel family. {.
“If the index fingers are each folded at two joints and touch each other at the fingernails, this is the mudrā of the five very powerful yakṣa s and so forth, which belongs to the Yakṣa family
If [the index fingers] are joined at the fingernails and held above the fingernails of the thumbs, with the hands positioned as before and the middle fingers raised up to form the shape of a needle, this is the mudrā of all the gods who inhabit the celestial realms of Akaniṣṭha and so forth; it belongs to the Celestial family. {.
“If one brings the hands together and makes them into fists with the thumbs exposed to view, this is the mudrā of the pratyeka­buddhas and noble śrāvakas. {.
“The eight mudrās just mentioned Belong to the eight families
Now I will teach a single mudrā That can be used for all the sons of the victors. {.
“If [the hands] are extended in the añjali gesture And then slightly contracted, This is the mudrā, it is taught, Of all the great bodhisattvas. {.
“The seven mudrās of the Sage are those Of the wish-fulfilling gem , the mendicant’s staff, The monk’s shirt , the bowl , the robe, The fangs , and the fearlessness. {.
“The vision , the loving kindness , the aura of light , the webbed [fingers], The [forty] teeth , the ūrṇā, and the abiding in bliss May also be regarded as mudrās Arising from the Victor’s own body. {.
“The above two heptads of mudrās, Together with the five mudrās handed down by me And the heart mudrā of the Sage, Constitute twenty mudrās taught by the primordial, self-arisen ones. {.} “These mudrās, formerly taught By the primordial victors, Are also referred to as the ‘retinue’ Of the twenty cakravartins
The enumeration may continue on and on, With each mudrā having a corresponding mantra. {.
“If one raises [the hands] and cups them, this is the mudrā of the wish-fulfilling gem 
If one makes [one’s hands] into fists and holds them, while sitting in a cross-legged position, at the left and right shoulders, this is the mudrā of the mendicant’s staff 
If the hands face each other with a space in between, this is the mudrā of the monk’s shirt. {.
“If the hollowed [hands are held] down below, this is the mudrā of the bowl
The mudrā of the robe is formed with the left hand
The mudrā of the fangs is formed out of the heart mudrā by raising the thumb of the left hand
In the mudrā of fearlessness , the [right] hand displays the gesture of granting fearlessness, while the left is supporting the robe. {.
“If there is a hollow space between the middle fingers, the index fingers are folded outside and the thumbs placed inside, this is the mudrā of the Buddha’s eye
The same mudrā, but with the middle fingers folded at the joints and the index fingers at the side of them, is [the mudrā] of the Buddha’s loving kindness
If one forms the añjali gesture with the fingers splayed, and then forms a triple ‘needle’ by hiding away the index and ring fingers, this is the mudrā of Māmakī. {.
“If one forms the añjali gesture, bends the index and middle fingers outward at the third joint, and joins the thumbs but keeps them apart from other fingers, this is the mudrā of Bhogavatī
The mudrā of Vijayā is formed with the index and middle finger of the left hand
With the three fingers of the right hand, one should display a vajra at the waist. {.
“Similarly, one can accomplish all activities by forming, above one’s head, the mudrā of the vidyārāja, which has the nature of the eight great mudrās. If one casts flowers onto the maṇḍala at the right time following the procedure as previously described
one will accomplish any activity according to one’s wish
Samayas are expressed by vidyā s or mantras
when properly sealed with a mudrā, they become as powerful as the mudrā
Should one display a mudrā carelessly or at the wrong time and place, one would break one’s samaya. {.
“As with the vajra, so with the trident —there is no difference between them —if it is raised, the [mudrā] is associated with Vajradhara; if lowered, with Maheśvara
If it is formed in the center, it is associated with the venerable masters and teachers as well as all humankind. {.
If a single finger is raised up, this is the mudrā of all human being
and other two-legged, four-legged, multilegged, and legless creatures in the threefold universe. If two fingers are raised
this is the mudrā of all the yakṣa s and yakṣiṇīs
If three are raised, this is the mudrā is of all the vidyādharas and vidyādharīs
If four fingers are raised, evenly leveled with the palm, this is the mudrā of the male and female lower gods and asuras. {.
“If the hands display a gracefully formed añjali gesture, this is the mudrā of all the gods inhabiting the realm of form
“If the hands, positioned as before, are made into hollow fists, this is the mudrā of all worldly beings, starting from the lords of the realm of desire and all the beings dwelling there
including men , animals, pretas, and yāmas. {.
“If one extends a single finger while forming the above mudrā, this is the mudrā of the piśācas and piśācīs
If one extends two fingers, this is the mudrā of the rākṣasas and rākṣasīs
If one extends three fingers, this is the mudrā of all the kravyādas and other carrion-eating spirits, the grahas, the mātṛs, the kuṣmāṇḍas and so forth, the piśitāśas, all the ḍākinīs, the vyantaras, the kaśmalas, and others
If one employs one’s own mind, one will accomplish all activities
Using only these mudrās according to need, one can combine them only with the mantras assigned to them
One must not use other [mudrās], or perform activities other than [those assigned to these mudrās]
One can only employ a mantra with whatever mudrās they are designated to. {.
“These mudrās, blessed by all the buddhas, Must not be used in a transgressive way
Through merely beholding the mudrā, No being will be capable of feeling anger. {.
By violating a mudrā one breaks one’s samaya and transgresses against all the vidyā s
The violator will certainly fall into the Raurava or Avīci hell. Creators of obstacles will fall deep down into one of the great hells
Those, on the other hand, who keep their samayas regarding the mudrās will experience long-lasting great happiness, will be reborn in the gods’ realms
and will certainly progress toward the final goal of awakening. {.
“In short, many different types of mudrās have been taught by the primordial buddhas and the bodhisattvas of great power
It is impossible for any being to fathom, enumerate, or learn them. {.
“Briefly, there is in the family of the Victorious One a single-syllable mantra, the vidyārāja , the cakravartin. Its corresponding mudrā, used for protection, is formed as follows: First one should make the left and right hands into fists, except for the middle fingers, which should be extended forth together, each bent at the first joint. As for the index fingers, each should be bent at both joints and touch the other at the fingernail
[Their tips] should be above the fingernails of the thumbs. This mudrā of the cakravartin [One Syllable] is suitable for all activities. It was declared by the protectors of the world to be the best of all mudrās. {.
“When this mudrā is employed with the previously described cakravartin One Syllable, it can accomplish all activities
When [One Syllable] is accomplished, the entire Tathāgata family is accomplished, and all the worldly and supramundane mantras are accomplished
When One Syllable is recited, all the mantras are recited. {.
“As for the other eminent mantra [deities] invoked in this king of manuals, the practitioner should always recite [their] mantras one thousand and eight times to start with
In this way, all these vidyā deities will be experienced directly and will soon grant accomplishments and boons
One will steadily progress toward awakening. {.
“One will accomplish all activities by combining the one-syllable heart mantra of Avalokiteśvara with the mudrā of Padmadhara, or by combining the vidyā of Pāṇḍaravāsinī with her mudrā
so also, by combining the mudrā of Vajradhara with his one-syllable heart mantra
or by combining the mudrā of Māmakī with her great vidyā. {.
“Similarly, in the Royal family, [one will accomplish all activities by combining] the one-syllable heart mantra of the bodhisattva Gajagandha with his mudrā. Also, regarding the Jewel, the Yakṣa , the Celestial, and the Noble families, one will accomplish all activities by combining the one-syllable heart mantras of these families with their respective mudrās
In this way, one will always be able to accomplish all activities using any of these mudrās and mantras
The power of the vidyā mantras will be directed according to how they are employed
The same applies to the mudrā of the gandharvas, the lower gods, and the asuras, which is formed by placing the tip of the left thumb inside a fist
The mudrā of the four virgins, again, can be combined only with the corresponding mantra. {.
“Similarly, the spear mudrā [should be combined with the mantra] of Kārttikeya 
The same applies to the mudrās of Yama, Varuṇa, Kubera, and the yakṣa s, rākṣasas, piśācas, and mahoragas—all the beings inhabiting the threefold universe, following the course of whatever destiny, and reborn in whatever realm—the grahas, mātṛs, kravyādas, kaśmalas, and so forth. All these beings have mudrās and mantras designated to them, which must be employed observing the right correspondence
Everything must follow the right order, not otherwise. {.
“First of all, the practitioner should rely on the auspicious mudrās and their corresponding mantras, as taught in this king of manuals, that represent the way of the tathāgatas. Also, Mañjuśrī, there are the mudrās of the noble bodhisattvas Samantabhadra, Mahā­sthāna­prāpta, and Vimalagati, as well as your utpala mudrā. These mudrās, of both the tathāgatas and the bodhisattvas, should always be displayed by the practitioner facing the east
Having gotten up early, he should stand facing the sun in a clean place and, himself clean, should display any one of these mudrās, raising it upward, above his head. {.
“Any of the corresponding mantras should be recited one hundred and eight times. He will be free from all disease
will live long, and will not be overcome by the vighnas
He will become unassailable by any living being
who will promptly grant him accomplishment
He will receive blessings from all the buddha
and will steadily progress toward awakening
The divine youth Mañjuśrī will himself become his spiritual friend until the attainment of full realization
What, then, are these mudrās and mantras? {.
“First, I will teach the mudrā of the great hero 
One should join the cupped hands folding the fingers in and raising up the thumbs bent where they meet the wrist. This is the mudrā of the great hero , taught by all the tathāgatas
The corresponding mantra is: “ Āḥ hero! Hūṁ khaṁ
“If combined with this mantra, the mudrā of the great hero will accomplish all activities. {.
“Having joined the cupped hands as before, one should open them with the fingers expanded all around into the shape of a blooming lotus. This excellent mudrā, introduced by the primordial buddhas, is called blooming 
The corresponding mantra is: “ Oṁ , you who originate from the sky! Be bright, be! Spread light, spread! You are blessed by the buddhas! Illuminate all the buddhas! Hūṁ hūṁ , Vikāsinī! Phaṭ phaṭ, svāhā! {.
“This mantra, when employed in combination with its namesake mudrā, is suitable for all activities
It points out those who are possessed by grahas. It causes those possessed, whether it is by grahas, kravyādas, or kaśmalas, or those knocked out by poison, to speak. Following the manner of its employment, it will fulfill all the required activities accordingly
In short, this vidyā , when employed along with the blooming mudrā, will fulfill all aims
it will swiftly bring the desired result even if it is not fully mastered. {.
“If one joins the cupped hands together with the fingers evenly folded, this is the heart mudrā [of the tathāgatas]
This heart [mudrā] should be incanted seven times with the [corresponding] heart mantra, and then ‘released.
The corresponding mantra is: “ Oṁ , brave Godari, svāhā
“This is the heart mantra of the tathāgatas. {.
“If one joins the cupped hands as before, with the fingers set apart so that there is free space between the fingertips, this is the uṣṇīṣa mudrā
The corresponding mantra is: “ Oṁ droṁ ! Bind! Svāhā
“This mantra is suitable for all activities. {.
“If one makes the right hand into a fist with the thumb free, this is the mudrā of the mendicant’s staff
The corresponding mantra is: “ Oṁ , shake [them]! You are invincible in battle, hūṁ
“This mantra of the mendicant’s staff is suitable for all activities. {.
“If the same mudrā is formed with the left hand touching the robe, this is the mudrā of the robe
The corresponding mantra is: “ Oṁ , protect [me], protect! O my robe, blessed by all the buddhas, svāhā
“With this mudrā of the robe of the Tathāgata one can accomplish all activities
If one wears a robe incanted with the corresponding mantra, one will enjoy good fortune and powerful protection
All the grahas, mātṛs, piśitāśas, kravyādas, kaśmalas, and vighnas will flee upon merely seeing [such a robe]. {.
“If the thumb of the left hand and the small finger of the right mutually touch, and the hands are lowered down with a hollow space between them, this is the mudrā of the bowl
The corresponding mantra is: “ Oṁ , O buddha bowl of great power, you are blessed by the protectors of the world! Hold, hold, and cause [the contents] to be held! Svāhā
“This mantra, when combined with the mudrā, is suitable for all activities
If one recollects [this mantra] at the time of eating, one will not be affected by any poison that one might swallow. {.
“If one makes the hands into fists, with the index fingers bent at the middle joint, this is the mudrā of the wish-fulfilling gem
The corresponding mantra is: “ Oṁ splendor, blaze! You who fulfill all aims. Bring success, bring! O wish-fulfilling gem, huṁ
“This mantra of the wish-fulfilling gem
when combined with its namesake mudrā, will accomplish all activities splendidly. {.
“By incanting with this mantra all one’s ornaments and decorations and putting them on, one ensures a powerful protection for one’s body
and one attains supreme good fortune
If one enters a battle, having donned the ornaments and incanted the armor
no weapon will be able to strike one’s body and one will be unassailable by one’s enemies
One will protect one’s own army and defeat the enemy army
One will accomplish these and innumerable other feats, even if one has not mastered them previously. {.
“If one takes a ruby, an emerald, or other type of precious stone, incants it one hundred and eight times and places it at the tip of a banner, on one’s head, or on an elephant’s back, one will not be taken prisoner when one enters the front lines of a battle
Seeing [the incanted gem], the enemy army will certainly be crushed without any fight or will fall into a heavy stupor. The defeated troops will flee, and so will their leader. {.
“If one forms the hands into mutually touching fists with the index fingers bent at the middle joint, on the level with the third joint on the middle fingers, this is the mudrā of the Dharma wheel 
The corresponding mantra, the mantra of the Dharma wheel, is: “ Oṁ blazing circle! Chop up, break, strike, burn, burn! Huṁ! {.
“If one is firmly set with the left foot outstretched, the right knee touching the ground, the left [hand] extended backward, and the right poised to deliver a blow, this is the mudrā of Aparājitā
The corresponding mantra is: “ Oṁ, hulu hulu ! O caṇḍālī , O mātaṅgī! Svāhā
“The mantra of Aparājitā and the mantra the Dharma wheel are suitable for all activities if used in combination with their corresponding mudrās
In short, they will remove all suffering
Whatever activities they are employed for, they will accomplish all of them. {.
“One should place the left hand in the lap and display with the right [the gesture] of teaching the Dharma. This is the spear mudrā of the tathāgatas
The corresponding mantra is: “ Oṁ Vijayā of great power, difficult to resist! Hūṁ phaṭ ! O Victorious One, phaṭ ! O auspicious one, phaṭ! “[This mantra of] the spear of the tathāgatas
when employed with its [namesake] mudrā, can accomplish all activities
It can paralyze all the vighnas, evil beings, and enemies, as well as all the gods
Its qualities are infinite. Whatever activities it is employed for, it will accomplish all of them. {.
“One should interlace the fingers of the hands with the palms facing upward and the index fingers touching at the tips to form the shape of a needle. This mudrā, turned around so that the palms face downward, should be displayed at the forehead
This is the ūrṇā mudrā of the blessed buddhas, taught by the primordial buddhas. The corresponding mantra is, ‘Homage to all the worthy tathāgatas, the fully realized buddhas.’ [The portion to be recited is]: “ He he ! Bind, bind! Remain, remain! Support, support! Suppress, suppress! O jewel of the ūrṇā, svāhā
“This mantra of the ūrṇā of the tathāgatas, when employed along with its [namesake] mudrā, can accomplish all activities. {.
“If one steps into the midst of one’s enemies wearing a bindi on one’s forehead made with bovine bezoar [incanted with the ūrṇā mantra] and reciting [the same]
one will be unassailable by any wicked beings and will not be harmed by them
Or, if one enters the middle of a battlefield, one will cause, merely by one’s gaze, the destruction of the enemy army
If one does not fail to display [the bindi], one can accomplish feats without limit
This [ ūrṇā ] has been taught by innumerable blessed buddhas. {.
“One should form the añjali gesture with the hands joined together without any gaps
The two index fingers should be bent at the middle joint. The thumbs should also be bent. This is the mudrā of the eye of the tathāgatas
The corresponding mantra is: “ Oṁ, ru ru ! Flash, blaze, and stay on! O Siddhalocanā who accomplishes all purposes, svāhā
“This mantra of the eye of the tathāgatas
when employed along with its namesake mudrā, can accomplish all activities. {.
“If one enters among one’s enemies, having incanted one’s eyes [with the eye mantra of the tathāgatas], they will lose their anger upon merely being looked at
Filled with loving kindness, they will harbor good wishes and will become friends
Or, if one gazes at one’s enemies when in the vanguard of the battle after incanting one’s eyes, they will become kindly disposed
Unable to raise their weapons in assault, they will turn back without any fight and subsequently turn into allies. {.
“If the hands are positioned horizontally and form the shape of a book with the opposite fingertips touching, this is the mudrā of Prajñāpāramitā
The corresponding mantra is: “ Homage to you, blessed goddess beautiful to look at! Oṁ tha
“This [mantra of] Blessed Prajñāpāramitā
when employed along with its namesake mudrā, can accomplish all activities. {.
“If one touches one’s heart while reciting [the mantra just described], one will increase one’s powers of recollection
If, while reciting, one enters into the midst of wicked enemies, one will deprive them of the ability to think
In the heat of a battle, one will be able to stupefy one’s adversaries, whether they are two-legged or four-legged, or make them lose their minds
In short, whatever activities the blessed goddess is employed for, she will accomplish all of them
The qualities of this [mantra] are infinite, and so are its ritual applications. {.
“The mudrās and mantras of the tathāgatas are infinite
One should employ [primarily] all the mudrās and mantras of the [deities] listed in the ‘Assembly’ chapter as the retinue deities of the tathāgatas, as the rites of other [deities] are innumerable
These mudrās and mantras should be employed according to the ritual of this king of manuals. {.
“Thus, the mantra of the Lotus family should be used together with the padma mudrā
This mantra is: “ Oṁ jiḥ jiḥ! Svāh
to the dispeller of fear, one with the body of a victorious one! “This is the mantra of the bodhisattva Avalokiteśvara
When employed together with the padma mudrā, it will accomplish all activities
When it is recited, all the mantras of the Lotus family are being recited
“The mantra to be used with [the mudrā] of the great vidyā Pāṇḍaravāsinī is
“ Oṁ kaṭe vikaṭe nikaṭe kaṭaṅkaṭe kaṭavikaṭa­kaṭaṅkaṭe svāhā
“[This mantra], when combined with the mudrā of Pāṇḍaravāsinī or the padma mudrā, can accomplish all activities
It also affords protection to those visiting any of the charnel grounds. {.
“Similarly, Tārā, Bhṛkuṭī, Candrā, any deities said to be from the retinue of the lord of vidyā s Hayagrīva
as well as the entire Lotus family in its infinity, may be invoked by the means of the mantras and mudrās along with their extensive rituals. {.
“The same applies to the Vajra family where the mantra is used together with the double vajra mudrā
The corresponding mantra is: “ Oṁ maintainer of the family! Bind, bind! Huṁ phaṭ
“This great vidyā called Māmakī, taught by all the buddhas, is suitable for all activities
When employed together with the mudrā of Māmakī formed in advance, it can accomplish any activity according to the practitioner’s wish
One can also employ the mudrās of the retinue [deities] of Vajrapāṇi as listed in the introductory chapter, as well as the entire vajra holder’s family without exception, in combination with their respective mantras. {.
“Similarly, in the Elephant family, there is, the mantra of the bodhisattva Gajagandha
“ Oṁ , you with an elephant’s name, hūṁ ! You who walk in the sky, svāhā
“When [this mantra] is employed along with the previously described mudrā, it will accomplish all activities
Just as before, when this mantra is accomplished, the whole family is accomplished. {.
“So also [is the case with] the mantras of Samantabhadra, Mahā­sthāna­prāpta, and Vimalagati, which are, [respectively:] “ Oṁ , son of the victors! The same and not the same! Do not delay! Hūṁ phaṭ !
“ Remain, remain in the exalted place! Having attained awakening, remember your samaya! Hūṁ, phaṭ phaṭ, svāhā!; “and “ Oṁ , stainless, stainless! With stainless form! Burn, burn! Remember your samaya, svāhā! {.
“The mantra of Gaganagañja can accomplish all activities if employed with the mudrā of any bodhisattva
This applies also to all the innumerable great bodhisattvas who have attained the tenth bodhisattva level, starting with Apāyajaha, Sadāprarudita, Kṣitigarbha, Ratnapāṇi, and Maitreya. Their mudrās and mantras are, likewise, innumerable. They ought to be employed [as instructed] in this king of manuals. {.
“The detailed section on all the mantras and mudrās covers a vast range of the worldly ones and the different levels of the supramundane. All the rites and their variants taught in this [manual] entail a samaya of the great assembly and require accomplishing all the relevant mantras. {.
“These mudrās and mantras should thus be employed according to their family association, whether the Jewel, the Yakṣa , the Celestial, or the Noble family
However, all these mantras and mudrās in all the tantras in the three times constitute but one family, which is none other than the Tathāgata family . And you too, Mañjuśrī, divine youth, may be regarded as belonging to the Tathāgata family. {.} “You should remember, Mañjuśrī, that all the buddhas, bodhisattvas, noble śrāvakas, and pratyeka­buddhas
all the worldly and supramundane mantra [deities], whether subject to karmic influences or not; and all the different mudrās—all of them belong to the families of the tathāgatas. There is no such mudrā, Mañjuśrī, or esoteric mantra system, that would not belong to a tathāgata family or have no samaya bond with a tathāgata
Know, divine youth, that they are connected. {.
“Just as the Tathāgata is said to be at the forefront, so is the Tathāgata family said to be at the forefront
Therefore, Mañjuśrī, this king of manuals is the jewel of the most eminent of families. It was taught, elucidated, established, and propagated by the past buddhas since time immemorial. {.} “This king of manuals was taught by Blessed Saṃkusumita Rāja, Blessed Śālarājendra, Blessed Saṃkusumita­gandhottama Rāja, Blessed Ratnaketu , Blessed Amitābha, Blessed Puṇyābha , [Blessed] Kusumottama, [Blessed] Saṃkusuma , [Blessed] Supuṣpa, [Blessed] Amitāyurjñāna­viniścaya­rājendra, [Blessed] Kanakamuni, [Blessed] Kāśyapa, [Blessed] Krakucchanda, [Blessed] Śikhin, [Blessed] Viśvabhū, Blessed Konākamuni, and also by me, Śākyamuni. It was taught before and will be taught again. {.
“In this way, O divine youth Mañjuśrī, this sovereign manual of your rites has been passed down by the succession of buddhas
It is the prime jewel of the Tathāgata family that brings great benefits
It is necessarily rooted in the sphere of phenomena
It is not possible to describe its benefits even in a thousand eons, or to fully describe its great qualities
“The extent of the great qualities of this manual and the ensuing results are immeasurable. They relate to both this existence and the hereafter
If any persons, full of trust and free from doubt, should memorize and propagate [this manual], apply themselves to its diverse practices, accomplish [its] mantras or [just] recite them, display [its] mudrās, applying themselves continually, such persons would exhibit the following eight qualities: {.
“ They would obtain special qualities and benefits.  They would be unfazed by their adversaries and have no fear therefrom.  Their bodies would be immune to poison and invulnerable to weapons.  They would be blessed by the buddhas and bodhisattvas and have long life, comforts, and intelligence.  The divine youth Mañjuśrī would become their spiritual friend and would appear to them in their dreams at night
 All the mantra [deities] would protect them and reveal to them their mudrās in their dreams
) No evil kings, wicked beings, or other ill-wishers would be able to harm them
 They would certainly be destined for awakening. {.
“These eight benefits will manifest for those with faith and no doubts
who earnestly apply themselves to the practice—householders or renunciants, women or men—if they follow the instructions. They will not manifest for others
For those engaging in evil actions the opposite will happen; they will proceed downward into the Raurava and other hells. {.
“As has been said, displaying the mudrās in the forenoon is conducive to long life
One should respectfully display the mudrās of the uṣṇīṣa [kings], and of Locanā and the others, while reciting the heart mantras of the deities from the retinue of the Tathāgata
They are of the same efficacy and power as your mudrās and mantras, O divine youth Mañjuśrī. {.
“As has been said, one should be clean and be in a clean place
The intermediate area should be free from thorns, smeared with cow dung that has not fallen, and strewn with sweet-smelling white flowers. Standing there, one should recite the mantra and display the mudrā—not anywhere else
and not [the mantras and mudrās] of other [deities], but a single mantra out of those [specified], accompanied by [its respective] mudrā. {.
“As said before, one should be clean. When the sun has set, one should wash oneself in pure water, free of living organisms, and put on fresh clothes
One should perform the uṣṇīṣa protection, and one should avoid sexual activity, be morally upright, and joyfully guard one’s purity and virtue. {.} “The protection effected by the uṣṇīṣa Should be followed by creating a [protected] circle Where, during sleep after the first watch of the night, One should contemplate the tathāgatas. {.
“One should obtain a thread spun by a virgin girl, or a brahmin girl who has never experienced sexual pleasure, and incant it one hundred and eight times with the mantra
“ Oṁ , seize, seize! Bind, bind! Arrester of semen and fulfiller of aims, svāhā! “One should recite this mantra while displaying the mudrā of Māmakī and then tie the thread around one’s hips
If one wraps it around three times, the semen will be arrested. {.
“Not even the lord of the realm of desire will be able to disturb one’s mind during sleep, so how could the dream-framing vināyakas do it
Through this method, and not without it, neither the daughters of the ṛṣis nor the daughters of the lord of the realm of desire, who assume various forms to excite passions, will be able to disturb one’s mind, even if normally one has passions and is not free from them, so how could other women, whether human or nonhuman, disturb it? {.
“Applying this procedure, one should rise early, go to the toilet, brush one’s teeth, rinse one’s mouth, and wash oneself, as before, in clean water free of living organisms
Facing the east, one should display the mudrā and recite the mantra. {.} “As a consequence, one will enjoy a long life and proficiency in all types of activity. One will be free from all major diseases and will be loved by everybody
One’s enemies will become one’s friends
Through merely seeing [the mudrā], all the grahas, kravyādas, kaśmalas, and so forth will flee
The enemy army will become paralyzed
Through merely displaying [the mudrā], one will accomplish any activity. One thus has a choice between the procedure that is pure, or the impure lack of it. {.
“This king of manuals is filled with infinite sets of mudrās and mantras, which have been and will be taught by innumerable blessed buddhas
I too—Tathāgata Śākyamuni, a worthy, fully realized buddha—have just now taught them in the midst of this great assembly. {.
“You also, Mañjuśrī, divine youth, will engage in the task of safeguarding these instructions and safeguarding the domain of the teachings over the long period of tim
when I have passed into nirvāṇa, dissolved into the ultimate reality, and attained the complete peace of the final state. {.
“As the end of an eon is now setting in, at this terrible time I taught this with my mind overcome by great compassion, for the benefit of beings
I taught this king of manuals in order to restrain and guide those who offend against the Three Jewels—the evil kings and the wicked beings. I taught this king of manuals with its detailed sections for the sake of all beings.” {.
This concludes the detailed chapter on the ritual procedures that prescribe the mantras and the mudrās, thirty-seventh in “The Root Manual of Noble Mañjuśrī,” an extensive Mahāyāna sūtra that forms a garland-like basket of bodhisattva teachings
At that time the blessed Śākyamuni again directed his gaze at the realm of the Pure Abode and spoke to Mañjuśrī, the divine youth
“Listen, Mañjuśrī! “Briefly, there are detailed [teachings on] the characteristics of the mudrās and the mantras, the procedures of the maṇḍalas and the association-based distribution of mudrās therein, and the secret maṇḍala of all the mantra [deities] in all the tantras. {.} “All of them were taught before By every buddha of great majesty
The exalted function of the mantras Was explained for each of the familie
By the former buddhas from the earliest time To bring benefit to sentient beings. {.
“Having set in motion the mantra wheel, Which constitutes the supreme wheel of the Dharma
They dissolved into the ultimate reality, Mounted upon the wheel of peace
All these buddhas, very powerful in the world, Entered the peace [of nirvāṇa]. {.
“All this was formerly taught By the tathāgatas since the beginning of time
I, too, will teach it [now] in this final world, Putting my trust, Mañju, in you.” {.
The divine youth Mañjughoṣa, Hearing these words Of the buddha of great splendor, Folded his hands before him, {.
And said to the best of speakers, The fully realized buddha, supreme among two-legged beings
“Teach the Dharma, O sagacious one, To bring benefit to the world! {.
“Teach it in a succinct manner, without elaborating, Causing the greatness of its qualities to bear fruit.
Having said this, Mañjuśrī remained silent. {.
The glorious great lord With a voice as sweet as a cuckoo Taught then everything that pertains To the distribution of mudrās in the maṇḍala. {.
Staying above the realm of the Pure Abode, The Lion of the Śākyas, the best of men, The fully realized buddha, [also] taught, at that time, The [relevant] mantra system. {.
“Listen, Mañjuśrī, divine youth, About the mudrās with their procedures, And about the mantras employed in tantric methods
Hear the full account of the greatness of their qualities! {.
“First of all, there are signs that indicate Whether something is a living being or not; [They include] form, actions, behavior, And all the gestures and speech. {.
“These gestures may involve both hands, both feet, The head, or the fingers of each hand
All of them were designated as mudrā By the primordial buddhas of yore. {.
“They are the pitcher, Parasol, lotus, banner, flag, Fish, vajra, conch, Jar, wheel, {.
“[And the mudrās named after] different weapons and implements — As many as there are known in the world— Including the mudrā shaped like a blue lotus, All of them are arranged around the maṇḍala. {.
“They are arranged in sequence, As specified in the instructions
Each of them should always be drawn With its own respective form. {.
“When talking about the mudrās in the maṇḍala, They are each place
In their own dedicated slot, Where they are known to belong. {.
“In all the maṇḍalas, One must use the right mudrā form
Cakravartin is thus represented by the wheel. If the uṣṇīṣa lord is Sitātapatra, {.
“One should draw a white parasol In the most prominent place in the maṇḍala
The Dharma wheel represents the buddhas, And the lotus, the Lotus family. {.
“The vajra is said to represent the Vajra family; The elephant, the Elephant family
And the jar, the Jewel family
These allocations apply to every maṇḍala. {.
“The two eminent families, the Celestial and the Noble, Should be drawn as the endless knot and swastika respectively
“To represent Mahābrahmā, one should draw a swan
For Śakra, one should draw his thunderbolt
To represent Maheśvara, one should draw his trident, And in addition, his bull. {.
“The trident is a three-pointed lance
For Skanda, one should draw a [one-pointed] lance
For Viṣṇu, a discus
And for the dānavas, a mace. {.} “The deities have various weapons And assume different bodily positions
They also have different vehicles, Which should always be drawn in the center. {.
“Conveying their form by means of an image, One should draw, in every maṇḍala, One of these [deities], Whichever one is appropriate. {.
“The maṇḍalas taught by the supreme victors May have one, two, three, Or an infinite number [of deities], Arranged to resemble the rows of an altar. {.
“[The deity] indicated for a given maṇḍala Should be placed in the center
If [the maṇḍala] is the ‘womb’ of the victors’ family, One should paint, in the very center, the Buddha. {.
“One should thus draw the image Of the Teacher right in the center
Second, one should draw [the deity] of the Lotus family, And third, [the deity of] the Vajra family. {.
“Having drawn all of this, one should add, Following the right order, the gods and the asuras, And then, filling the entire area, The yakṣa s, rākṣasas, and humans. {.
“Next, one should draw, In the right order, the tīrthikas, And also the guardians of the quarters, All of them in their respective places. {.
“In short, one may draw a maṇḍala Starting from a single dot or two, Up to infinity, until the quarters are filled Up to their farthest limits. {.
“The earth is said to be infinite, And so can be the surface of the maṇḍala, Starting from a single dot or two, And extending over the entire earth. {.
“Based on the instructions, The maṇḍala procedure is said to be Of three kinds, known as The highest, the medium, and the lowest. {.
“The highest procedure results in the highest accomplishment
If the procedure is medium, the accomplishment is said to be middling
The lowest procedure results in an inferior accomplishment
As was formerly taught by the supreme victors. {.
“The supreme victors also explained The threefold accomplishment based on mental capacity
Great beings attain great accomplishment
And the mediocre, the middling
The third accomplishment, that of minor beings, Is taught for the minor activities. {.
“When one’s thoughts [are suffused with] faith, One is of the highest capacity and will definitely obtain Final buddhahood with its attendant rewards Through merely seeing the maṇḍala. {.
“Those of the middling mental capacity will attain, At that time, the realization of a pratyeka­buddha
The remaining ones, because of their lack of devotion, Are bound for the state of a śrāvaka. {.
“This is not unfruitful, as the proclaimed result [Of the śrāvaka path]—the peaceful destiny [of nirvāṇa]—is exalted
If one merely sees the maṇḍala, One is bound to attain birth in the divine realms. {.
“Similarly, all the excellent mudrās And the mantras, in all their vastness
Can be employed in three different ways; In terms of bringing happiness, they are divided into three categories
The mudrās and the maṇḍalas having already been described, [Now] the benefits of mantras are being told. {.
“These mantras are of three kinds— The same three categories That have been taught for the maṇḍalas Apply also to the mudrās and the mantras. {.
“The relevant procedures Taught by the guides of the world Are, in the same way, threefold
And further still, manifold or thousandfold. {.
“While being of three kinds, or falling into three categories, They are also twofold, or of infinite types
The mantra is coextensive with the mind And never separate from the mind. {.
“One who employs the mantra, Blending it with the mind, will succeed
Whatever mantras there are in the Tathāgata Or the Lotus families, {.
“Or those chanted in the Vajra Or other families
Including all the worldly mantras, All of them arise from the [mind]. {.
“If one studiously recites any mantra From the Victor’s family that was taught For the sake of beings by the victors’ sons, One will certainly become a buddha. {.
“If one reverently recites The mantras of the middle category, One will definitely acquire the family status Referred to as pratyeka­buddha. {.
“A mantra reciter studiously engaged In reciting other mantras, Such as those taught by the noble śrāvaka
And the worldly mantras that are essentially virtuous, Will certainly acquire the family status Of a śrāvaka of great power. {.
“Similarly, the rites may be divided Into the highest, the medium, and the inferior
The rites of pacifying lead to the realization of a buddha
Those of nourishing, to the realization of a rhinoceros-like pratyeka­buddha
Those that involve minor mantras Are said to lead to the realization of a śrāvaka. {.
“In this context, the mind should also Be regarded as being of three types
But can be further subdivided into many, Even infinite, types.” {.
This concludes the detailed chapter on all the ritual procedures involving the mudrā and the maṇḍala methods, thirty-eighth in “The Root Manual of Noble Mañjuśrī,” an extensive Mahāyāna sūtra that forms a garland-like basket of bodhisattva teachings
At that time Blessed Vajrapāṇi, the general of the yakṣa s who was in the assembly, got up from his seat, draped his upper robe over the left shoulder, placed his right knee on the ground, bowed to the Blessed One with his palms pressed together, and made the following request: {.
“O Blessed One! You have not fully explained the ritual of the lord of wrath called Yamāntaka that was taught by Mañjuśrī, the divine youth
Nor has Mañjuśrī, the divine youth, explained it
I request you, Blessed One, to teach this ritual, out of regard for human beings during the final age, so that, at the time when you are in the state of complete nirvāṇa, when the teachings have disappeared, during the dreadful time of the worst age when the buddhafield is completely devoid of śrāvakas and pratyeka­buddhas, the teachings of the tathāgatas may be preserved, the domain of the Dharma may remain for a long time
all wicked kings may be subdued, those who harm the Three Jewels may be suppressed, the inconceivable bodhisattva conduct may bring the virtues of beings who require guidance to completion, and innumerable sentient beings may be brought to complete maturity. {.
“During the final eon, Blessed One, when the final age has arrived in which the Sugata’s instructions perish, should one practice this rite of the wrathful lord Yamāntaka correctly, one will attain accomplishment
And this lord of wrath should always be used against none other than those evil kings and sentient beings who harm the teachings, such as the great yakṣa s who are extremely powerful and engage in acts of oppression or assistance but lack great compassion.” {.
The Blessed One, remaining silent, entered the samādhi called the buddha’s blessing through miraculous transformation 
The divine youth Mañjuśrī, too, remained silent
The entire assembly and its surroundings began to shake in six different ways. {.
The hosts of divine beings, all the youthful lords, Were alarmed and terrified
All the gods, the nāga s, The dānava lords, the mātṛs, {.
The grahas, the mukhyas, and so forth— All of the hosts of divine beings trembled
Human beings also trembled, their minds disturbed, And so did the evil-minded pūtanas. {.
After that the violently predisposed human kings, Fearful and distressed, Took refuge in the instructions Of the Dharma king. {.
Awed by the great radiance of Vajrapāṇi, The lord of guhyakas, himself a yakṣa, And by the youthful prince Mañjughoṣa, Lord of the mantra, They forged then, in Mañjughoṣa’s presence, A samaya connection by saying, {.
We are being burnt By the extremely fierce, cruel mantras
We stand before you on earth In a stupor caused by our anger.” {.
Then the bodhisattva with the form of a child Of great splendor addressed them as follows
“Do not be afraid, all of you gods, Yakṣa s, rākṣasas, and dānavas. {.
“Your samaya, now explained to you by me, Cannot be violated by any deity By any human or nonhuman being, And especially not by any spirit. {.
“Being perpetually of a kind mental disposition, At all times one should recollect the mantra— The mantra that is the fully realized buddha, Supreme among two-legged beings, the Lion of the Śākyas and best of men. {.
“He taught the mantras Of the uṣṇīṣa s and so forth
including the Locanā; The mantras of the teachers of the three worlds— Cakravartin, Tejorāśi, and Jayoṣṇīṣa — {.} “And also of Vijayoṣṇīṣa and the rest; Of Padmapāṇi, Lokita, Avalokiteśvara, Bhṛkuṭī, Tārā, and Yaśasvinī; {.} “And also [the mantras of] the goddesses Sitavāsinī, Mahāśvetā, and Yaśovatī; The vidyā Bhogavatī; And Hayagrīva, the king of mantras. {.} “These are the main mantras In the Lotus family that emerged from the victorious ones. The cakravartin One Syllable Is the mighty lord of [all these] mantras. {.
“If one remembers the god of gods, The splendorous lord of mantras By the name of Yamāntaka, One will have no anger. {.
“[The mantra of] Avalokiteśvara Gives rise to compassionate thoughts And overwhelms the mind with great compassion
[The mantra of] Tārā, revealed by the former buddhas {.
“And spoken by Avalokiteśvara, Delivers sentient beings [from suffering]
This noble vidyā is generated during samādhi And designated as woman in name and form. {.
“Consequently, the bodhisattva conducts himself As [Tārā], the supreme ‘companion in awakening,
In thousands of world spheres, Too many to be counted. {.
“Synchronically, the goddess [herself] sojourns widely, Bringing welfare to embodied beings In her form of a woman With the nature of the mantra. {.
“At that time, she establishes beings who need guidance On the path to awakening
Manifesting the inconceivable Conduct of the bodhisattvas. {.
“One should also keep in mind Vajrapāṇi, The valiant lord of mantras, And Māmakī who upholds her family— The goddess worshiped by the three worlds— {.
“And also [the dūtīs] Śṛṅkhalā, Mekhalā, Vajramuṣṭī, and Yaśasvinī; [The krodhas] Krodhendra, Tilaka, and Śatru; [And the vidyārāja s] Nīladaṇḍa and Bhairava. {.} “These are the hosts of dūtīs, The krodhas, and those known as the overseers of vidyā s
They are all the main deities of the Vajra family, And my sentinels. {.
“Also, if one remembers Gajagandha, The bodhisattva of great power in this world, Or Mahāsthānagata, the sagacious Bodhisattva of great power, {.
“Or the greatest, the head of the sons, The beautiful Samantabhadra
At that time One will be free from fear. {.
“Similarly, if one continually recollects Māṇibhadra, or the supreme yakṣa Jambhala, Or any śrāvaka, pratyeka­buddha, or buddha, How could one be afraid? {.
“It is stated that through recollecting Or worshiping them one obtains great protection
Great rewards will then be obtained, [Such as rebirth as] a god of Puṇyābha or Asaṃjñaka. {.
“As for those who possess the female form, They should worship the majestic goddess free from passion
And also the Three Jewels, While trusting in the teachings of the Victorious One. {.
“They will not be in any danger then From either friend or foe
The relevant samaya, it is said, Must never be violated by any mantra practitioner. {.
“It is taught in connection with the supreme krodha And praised [as the samaya] of Yamāntaka himself
If beings keep this samaya, No humans will be eaten.” {.
After that, all the gods and Nonhuman beings were delighted
Realizing the bodhisattva mind, They were all established in the samaya. {.
The yakṣa general was angry And expressed his contempt
Then, shaking all the innumerable World spheres, [he exclaimed,] {.
“What is the use of this instruction? There is no need for Lord of Wrath
Up to now the sons of the victorious ones Guided sentient beings! {.
“The power of Lord of Wrath Was dispensed with long ago!
Having said this, the vajra holder Threw his vajra scepter down and waited. {.
Mañjughoṣa, the divine youth In the form of a male child, Powerful and intelligent, Laughed and gave this reply: {.
“Do not be upset, O great yakṣa, Powerful Vajrapāṇi
Although the [deity] taught by me Is Lord of Wrath of great power, {.
“It is your own mantra that I am going to reveal
You may disseminate it as you like, [But] it is not possible for you to proclaim The power of [Lord of] Wrath. {.
“If you ask why, it is because He is identical with you And is seen present here in [your own] body, Summoned there for you as your heart essence. {.
“With Lord of Wrath immerged in you, It is not possible to reverse it at this stage
Once you have departed, permitted to do so, You may teach your own samaya the way you like. {.
“If one is unwashed, sleepy, Engaged in the dharma of commoners
Anointed with oil and not protected, And always having bad thoughts; {.
“If one has given up all the excellent mantras, Has no faith in the teachings, And consequently harbors doubts, Is intolerant toward those without faith, {.
“Rejects the jewel of the sacred Dharma, Repudiates the saṅgha, and is distracted, Naked, always unclean And limited to unclean pursuits, {.
“Not discreet, not practicing the mantra, Always impure, and devoid of compassion
If one has a penchant for having sex In the vicinity of temples and caityas {.
“Or in the courtyard of a monastery, [Lord of] Wrath will destroy one
Those who have broken their samaya, have no faith, Do not know how to use the mantras, {.
“Or stumble in their conduct somewhat— [Lord of] Wrath will bring their ruin
It is not possible to find in this human world Anyone that is not careless. {.} “Women intoxicated with passion, Tarnished by breaking their samayas, Are killed by Lord of Wrath, Along with the negligent practitioners of mantra. {.
“All immature beings everywhere Fall under the sway of others if they are careless
Except for the pratyeka­buddhas, the arhats, and the śrāvakas Who have extinguished their passions forever, {.
“All of them will be killed by Lord of Wrath And punished in every respect.
Being thus told by Mañjuśrī, with his mind filled with compassion, The beings [in the assembly exclaimed,] {.
“Inconceivable are the acts of the buddhas And the bodhisattvas of great power!
Having said this, They all remained silent. {.
The glorious Vajradhara then Took up his vajra scepter once again. Holding it, he rejoiced. Permitted [to do so], he spoke again. {.
This concludes the detailed chapter describing Lord of Wrath Yamāntaka, the greatness of his mantra and the attendant rules, fiftieth in “The Root Manual of Noble Mañjuśrī,” an extensive Mahāyāna sūtra that forms a garland-like basket of bodhisattva teachings
At that time Vajrapāṇi, the lord of guhyakas, looked at the entire great assembly and addressed all the hosts of beings seated [in the space] above the realm of the Pure Abode: {.
“Listen, honorable friends! For a start I will teach the painting procedure of Lord of Wrath Yamāntaka—one of infinite power and courage, the tamer of those difficult to tame, one who terminates the life of Vaivasvata, a great bodhisattva devoted to restraining wicked beings—the procedure that was taught by Mañjuśrī. {.
“There are no restrictions regarding The lunar day, the asterism, or fasting injunctions
One should commission this painting Whenever one is afraid of enemies. {.
“One should obtain, on the fourteenth Or the eighth day of the dark fortnight, At night, in a charnel ground, A clothing item from a dead brahmin. {.
“One should take it at night, Dye it red with blood, Wash it in water again and again, And then dry it thoroughly. {.
“One should commission a cruel and angry painter To paint in a manner that is terrifying, In a charnel ground, during the dark fortnight, And have it completed within three nights. {.
“On the night of the eighth or the fourteenth lunar day, By the light of a lamp fed by human fat, The painter should stay put right there, Always facing the south. {.
“He should be sitting on a human skull, Have the protection ritual performed, and be focused
Alternatively, the mantra practitioner can do the painting himself, If he is tormented by the fear and suffering caused by enemies. {.
“In the course of the first night, The enemies will be seized with great fear
On the second night, they will be, in addition, Seized by a great fever and fall into a swoon. {.
“On the third night, they will breathe their last And proceed to the next world
How could they ever experience peace When the mantra practitioner is displeased? {.
“The enemies’ bodies will wither And their houses fall into ruin As the result of drawing a picture Of the terrifying Yamāntaka in this way: {.
“He should be drawn with six faces and six feet, Black in color, with a ‘wolf’s belly,’ Wearing a garland of skulls, angry, Wearing a tiger skin, {.
“Terrifying with his various weapons, With a staff in his hand, inspiring fear, With eyes red with rage, And distinguished by his three eyes. {.
“His blazing hair flows upward, With smoke-colored strands here and there. He is black as collyrium, terrifying, And dark as a monsoon cloud. {.} “One should draw him mounted on a buffalo And resembling, in form, the god of death, Vicious in his actions, extremely terrifying, And a fierce and vehement killer. {.
“He terminates the life of Yama And is ready to kill living beings
Exceedingly cruel in his actions, He is most terrible and terrifying. {.
“This bringer of death to all embodied beings Strikes fear and panic into fear itself
One should draw the supremely wrathful one Using paints made from one’s own blood. {.
“The paints should be of bright and varied [colors], Mixed with human fat and cow products
They should be in containers made of skulls, Secured with [pieces of] human bone. {.
“One should use brushes Skillfully made from the hair of a corpse
Whether the painting is done by oneself or a painter, It must be executed while fasting. {.
[Which should consists of] copious bali offerings of flowers and so forth, Red chaplets, and prime quality sandalwood
One should burn incense of human flesh and fat And adorn [the working place] with lamps [fed] with [ human ] fat. {.
“When the painting is finished, One should pay the artist
Always a big amount, Or whatever he will be happy with
Since his Dharma work is fraught with great danger, It should be made worthwhile for him. {.
“In short, one should pay a generous amount, Whatever the craftsman may desire
As the artist’s work will produce results, One should avoid underpayment. {.
“He should be employed on terms That he finds wholly satisfactory
A protection ritual must also be performed, Otherwise he will die. {.
“[As] the artisan would perish with his household, He too must protect himself
He must do the work after reciting the vidyā, And the procedure should not be disclosed to others. {.
“Once the painting is fully completed And one sees that it is as had been envisaged
One can perform all the cruel rites That destroy one’s enemies. {.
“Taking this best of paintings, One should go to a place of one’s liking
[One can target with the ritual] kings backed by powerful vassals, Or those who are arrogant on account of their great wealth, {.
“Proud in the extreme, Cruel and given to cruel pursuits, Or committing offenses against the Three Jewels
Also, the nihilists who reject the mantras, Those who do not worship the mantra [deities], Or those who censure the devotees who take refuge in these [deities]. {.
“Particularly humiliated will be those Who insult mantra reciters. One can target them, Following the prescribed procedure. {.
“The rite that instantly arrests the life force Can likewise be employed Against those who always act contrarily to the Dharma And oppress each and every living creature. {.
“One should obtain the fruit, Leaves, bark, and root of soapberry And combine them with kāñjika, tamarind, And powdered human bone. {.
“[One should add] white mustard oil, some poison, Vinegar, fresh ginger, and brown mustard And blend [everything] with blood Of human origin. {.
“One should take this entire preparation, Set up the painting in a secluded place
And position oneself to face south, With the painting facing north. {.
“One should prepare the fire pit as one likes And make it blaze using bundles of straw And dry sticks that produce acrid [smoke]. Fully focused, one should offer The entire preparation into the fire pit Following the procedure prescribed for homa. {.
“One should summon the [god of] fire With the mantra of Lord of Wrath
For all the rites of this ritual, One should display the spear mudrā. {.
“One should angrily offer into the fire pit One thousand and eight oblations
At the first junction [of the night], The [target’s] son will die; {.
“At the second junction, the [target’s] wife Along with his retinue and the senior staff
And at the third, the person Against whom the rite was performed. {.
“If one recites at midnight, Close to the painting, With the intention to kill one’s enemies, This will happen just so. {.
“The [target’s] kingdom will be ruined— A plague will arise in his army
And there will be wildfires, hurricanes, Heavy rains, and floods. {.
“The [target’s] entire army will be Completely destroyed by another army
Various misfortunes will befall him, And he will be stricken with great illness. {.
“The entire body of that king Will wither, there is no doubt about this
And his whole household will be haunted And troubled by nonhuman beings. {.
“He will find no rest in bed And will pace in circles on the ground
His house will be overrun By rākṣasas, pretas, and kravyādas. {.
“He will always be troubled and afraid And tormented by acute suffering
Maheśvara and other earthly deities Will not be able to protect him, {.
“Nor will the world protectors—Brahmā and so forth
Or the thirty-three gods—Śakra and so forth
Or any mantras or deities In the whole world. {.
“The life of a person who is evil, cruel, and haughty Will be brought to an end
If the mantra is recited At midnight or at midday, The angry Vaivasvata will appear As Yamarāja before [such a person]. {.
“During the dark fortnight, whenever convenient, One should prop up the painting on the ground And perform a big pūjā along with bali offerings
This should be in a charnel ground, in a forest, {.} “By a solitary tree or a śivaliṅga, On top of a mountain, or in a cave
One should always perform [this rite] Alone, without a companion, {.
“While staying in a lonely place in a great forest, A vacant temple or shrine, At a river, Or on the shore of an ocean. {.} “One should always do the ritual Staying in or near such places
Or anywhere one wants within the radius Of one hundred leagues [from the target]. {.
“One should always perform these rites Following the rules and staying pure. There are countless locations where one may stay And infinite number of pure places. {.
“Within the inconceivable domain of mantras, The range of mantra [activity] is inconceivable. The power of mantras is inconceivable
The accomplishment of reciters is inconceivable, The activity appears to be inconceivable
And the result is also inconceivable. {.
“Inconceivable is the activit
Of Lord of Wrath Yamāntaka, the great being
Inconceivable, too, is the range of his power And his great display of miracles
Inconceivable is the accomplishment of reciters Of his mantra observed here on earth. {.
“All the bodhisattvas, with their great powers, Would not be able to protect the target
How then would worldly mantra deities, Along with the grahas and mātṛs, protect him? {.
“Neither Īśāna nor Viṣṇu; Nor Skanda or Purandara
Nor those who are bound by samaya, Including the victorious ones and their sons; {.
“Nor the eminent bodhisattvas Who abide on the ten levels
Nor the pratyeka­buddhas and arhats, Free from passion and possessed of great powers Would be able to protect [the target], Even though they formerly took the samaya. {.
“I will briefly explain
Listen, those of you who desire prosperity
When the reciter is not pleased, No being can escape him
How could such a being find peace, If the reciter of this supreme mantra is not happy? {.
“If, on the other hand, the reciter Of the great Lord of Wrath Yamāntaka Is kindly disposed in his mind Or tender with compassion, Then such being will obtain peace and stability And will remain alive. {.
“[One should combine] neem, White mustard, kāñjika, the five poisons, Human blood, flesh, Salt, the three pungent substances, {.} “Brown mustard, powdered conch, Vinegar, fresh ginger, The root of devil’s trumpet, The root of ribbed gourd, {.} “The root of the castor-oil plant, barley potash, Safflower, devil’s thorn, The root of madana, Garlic, gṛñjanaka, {.} “Dhak tree, śākhoṭaka tree, Onion, and grain beer. Having blended all these [ingredients], one should offer [The mixture] into the fire, near to the painting. {.
“When one has offered one thousand and eight homas, The enemies will be destroyed, root and branch— One will destroy all of them Along with their sons, daughters, and retinues. {.
“If one performs the homa at the second junction, They will be completely uprooted
If the reciter performs the homa When the third junction has arrived, {.
“A famine will strike the target And his townsfolk
There will be droughts and many deaths, With rākṣasas pullulating everywhere. {.
“There will be wildfires, hailstorms, Thunder, and lightning In the countries and domains Of such a king. {.
“Many disasters will occur, Including an invasion by a foreign army
There will be many misfortunes In his country— They will manifest in various ways, As the goddess of fortune departs. {.
“If one offers as homa the root of devil’s trumpet, The target will lose his mind
If one offers kaṭuka as homa, The target will definitely be caught in a great fire
If one offers a citron into the fire, A great fever with chills will arise in the [target’s] body. {.
“Whether he is a wicked king Intoxicated by his own might, Backed by powerful and cruel vassals And his own great army, He will die after two Or seven nights. {.
“Whichever [king is targeted], one should write The name of his personal deity or his nakṣatra And draw his form on the ground in front of the painting Using charcoal from a cremation ground
Then, one should step upon the [king’s] head with one’s foot And recite the mantra angrily. {.
“All of a sudden the king will be seized By various acute pains
Overcome by a terrible disease, He will die that very moment. {.
“He also may be struck with an axe And, moreover, lose his limbs
He may be eaten by nonhuman beings Such as the cruel rākṣasas, kaśmalas, {.
“Kravyādas, pūtanas, Piśācas, pretas, or mātṛs. He may suddenly be attacked by them, And even by his own servants.” {.
The glorious Vajradhara, Having thus spoken to the assembly, Bowed to all the buddhas And then waited in silence. {.
For the sake of those who want to benefit the world, He furthermore pronounced The mantra of all the hosts of yakṣa s And yakṣiṇīs everywhere. {.
Continuing with his talk, The bodhisattva, the general of the yakṣa s, Then taught the section on the yakṣiṇīs That contains all the [relevant] rites
The summoning of anyone, the enthrallment, And the removing of all physical afflictions. {.
When a mantra practitioner is looking for sex And is blinded by passion or otherwise confused in his mind, The Sugata’s prohibitive ordinances Cannot possibly stop him. {.
Such people have already experienced intense suffering In the cycle of births without beginning. The tathāgatas taught that their [future] rebirth Will take them from suffering to greater suffering. {.
A celibate person who has tamed his senses Will obtain a pleasant rebirth
Which is said to be good and auspicious. Eventually, he will obtain peace
Riding the three vehicles with equanimity, He will obtain nirvāṇa. {.
Those among the ascetics who, blinded by passion, Do the opposite under the sway of bad inclinations
Will wander in the terrible abyss of saṃsāra, Following the five destinies. {.
It is for the sake of those who suffer [like this] That the sensual enjoyments will be described
Following the injunctions of the Teacher, Will be released from all fetters. {.
This concludes the detailed second chapter with the precepts regarding the violent rites of Lord of Wrath Yamāntaka, fifty-first in “The Root Manual of Noble Mañjuśrī,” an extensive Mahāyāna sūtra that forms a garland-like basket of bodhisattva teachings
At that time the great being, Bodhisattva Śāntamati, who was sitting in the midst of that great gathering, got up from his seat, bowed to each of the buddhas, and stood in the middle of the assembly
Having circumambulated the blessed Śākyamuni three times clockwise, he bowed at his feet and, looking in the direction of Vajrapāṇi, the great general of the yakṣa army, said: {.
“You are exceedingly cruel, Vajrapāṇi, in that you teach mantra methods that are harmful to all sentient beings, or serve to obtain sensual pleasures
It is not proper, O son of the victorious ones, for the bodhisattvas, the great beings, to act like this because bodhisattvas, great beings, are endowed with great compassion and practice bodhisattva conduct. Practicing benevolence for the sake of all beings, they do not cast off the fetters of existence. {.
“Moreover, O son of the victorious ones, the venerable tathāgatas, the fully realized buddhas, having all sentient beings in mind, do not give Dharma instructions on how to harm beings. Since they possess great compassion, they adopt the attitude of benevolence toward all beings.” {.
The great being Bodhisattva Vajrapāṇi replied to Bodhisattva Śāntamati
“Śāntamati! A bodhisattva should indeed train to be this way and should adopt such an attitude
What you now say and teach, all the buddhas and the bodhisattvas of great power teach. I will explain it, too, speaking from the perspective of the absolute truth. {.
“The ultimate Dharma is taught While abiding in the ultimate reality
The limit of beings cannot be conceived of, Nor can the methods for ripening them. {.
“The teachings of the buddhas are inconceivable, And so is the conduct of awakening
When it comes to beings who require guidance, A bodhisattva’s mode of acting is inconceivable. {.
“The conduct of the bodhisattvas Is proclaimed as inconceivable
Among all of the mantras, The power of this mantra-method is inconceivable. {.
“The extent of the miraculous power of the mantra Of Lord of Wrath Yamāntaka, the great being, Is inconceivable, and so is the greatness Of mastering it. {.
“Śāntamati, the conduct of the bodhisattvas, the great beings, which manifests throughout the entire domain of sentient beings, is inconceivable
Accordingly, Śāntamati, a bodhisattva who recites the mantra should think, ‘Supposing the aims of the target [were fulfilled], he would accumulate a lot of negativity and would fall into one of the great hells. But this being should not make his store of negativity even greater
May he never be separated from the three realizations.’ {.
“Only after forming this wish, Śāntamati, can a bodhisattva who recites the mantra perform a violent rite of assault, applying the skillful means
In all [such] rites, he must be aware of his motive and avoid any unwholesome motives
When undertaking to guide beings, he must strive to do this with a mind full of compassion. {.
“Moreover, son of the victors, because of the greatness of their comprehension of Dharma and non-Dharma, virtue and nonvirtue, and good and bad, the blessed buddhas mastered the ability to skillfully guide beings
They have attained the realization of the sphere of phenomena, and all of them without exception bring beings to maturity by the skillful means of Dharma instructions. {.
“We should strive, son of the victors, to be the same [as them], so that we can guide, mature, and instruct beings. Therefore, venerable sons of the victors, each and all of you present in this assembly, who have taken the great samaya, should study and develop trust, seeking to establish what is skillful and what is not, so that you can take joy in teaching the Dharma of the tathāgatas.” {.
Bodhisattva Śāntamati, the great being, looked at the yakṣa general Vajrapāṇi in silence and remained in his seat. Looking then at Lord Buddha, he thought
“The Buddha’s teachings are inconceivable.” {.
Vajrapāṇi, the master of guhyakas, directing his gaze at the entire assembly, continued to teach the ritual of Lord of Wrath 
“Listen, respectable hosts of gods and all the hordes of bhūtas who dwell in the inhabited worlds! {.
“To start, one should perform the protection ritual, take the painting of Lord of Wrath , and go to a secluded place where there is a single śivaliṅga, the abode of Maheśvara. One should anoint this liṅga with poison, blood, brown mustard oil, and kāñjika, and worship it with the petals of neem tree [flowers]
One should put on a sacred thread made of human entrails of tubular shape, take a human skull with the right hand, and make a gesture as if delivering a blow. Filled with utmost wrath, one should threaten the liṅga with the index finger of the left hand, while focusing the mind on humiliating the haughty and wicked kings or other corrupt men with powerful acquaintances, very wealthy, very fierce, and very influential
One should then shut the door [of the temple] and stand naked with loose hair, with one’s left foot atop the Maheśvara liṅga. One should recite the mantra of Lord [of Wrath] until the liṅga splits open. {.
“The liṅga will be in two separate parts and the great syllable hūṁ will be heard. One must not be afraid at that time
On the very same day, the wicked kings, or other enemies with powerful acquaintances, will suddenly be seized with fever, or seized by nonhuman beings, such as rākṣasas and so forth
If, at that time, one keeps reciting the mantra for a while, the enemy’s life will suddenly be terminated
If one recites at night, the enemy’s entire family will perish. {.
“There is also another rite. One should go at midday, as before, to a temple of Maheśvara and worship the liṅga with neem leaves, burn the incense of human flesh, and recite the mantra until the house of the enemy is set on fire, or the enemy starts shivering from a great fever
If one does not stop reciting and remains, really angry, near to Dakṣiṇamūrti, the enemy will die and his family line will be terminated
To bring [the enemy] back to life, one should repeatedly wash the liṅga in water and rinse it with the cool milk of a cow. [The enemy] will become well again. {.
“There is also another rite
One should light a fire opposite the southern face of the Maheśvara liṅga, using sticks of the thorn apple, and offer into it one thousand and eight oblations of sticks of vaikaṅkata smeared with poison, blood, and brown mustard [oil]
All the enemies will succumb to a serious illness and will be unable to perform any actions
On the second day, they will be seized with a great fever, a sharp pain, and various diseases. They may also become seized by nonhuman beings who will eventually bring about their death
On the third day, [if the rite is performed] at the three junctions, all of them will, without exception, lose their lives
To bring them back to life, one should offer oblations of milk. This will pacify the suffering. All the people in the area and all the enemies will become well again. {.
“Similarly, one can perform this rite for any target by stepping upon the deity or spirit that the target is a devotee of. This deity should be represented by its mantra or nakṣatra, upon which one should step with one’s left foot and perform the rite
The exceptions are the vidyā s who are tathāgatas, over whom one should never step or stand astride but perform the rite, for all of them, holding them between one’s big toes
It is only the worldly mantra deities that one can step upon. {.
“Even if the mantra of Lord of Wrath has not been fully mastered, it can still accomplish the [intended] activities by merely being recited
With it, one can obliterate all [other] mantras
slay all one’s enemies
and destroy all the magical diagrams and devices
In short, whatever this mantra is employed to do, it will accomplish all of it regardless of whether it is a mundane or supramundane mantra ritual
The mantra will accomplish it all
Through merely reciting it, all hopes will be fulfilled. Accomplished through recitation, Lord of Wrath will subsequently grant the supreme accomplishment
The practitioner will destroy his enemies by merely wishing to do so
If employed in combination with the great spear mudrā, the mantra will accomplish all activities. {.
“There is also another rite. One should go at midday to a charnel ground, fast for one night—the fourteenth of the dark fortnight—at a cremation spot, light a fire there using charnel ground wood, and offer into the fire oblations of brown mustard smeared with poison and blood
Subsequently, all the pretas will arrive, making the sound hā hā . One must not be afraid, but say, ‘Please kill my enemies!
They will reply, ‘So be it!’ and disappear
Then, traveling one thousand leagues in a mere instant, they will kill the enemies and ruin their families
They will carry out these and similar acts. {.
“There is also another rite
In a secluded and clean area, wearing clean clothes, one should enter an abandoned house and offer one thousand and eight oblations of cotton seeds
One should then scoop the [sacrificial] ashes with both hands, wrap them in clean cloth in two separate bundles, and seal them in a double clay bowl
Ritually protected, one should then take the [sealed] contents out of the house and go at night
either the fourteenth or the eighth of the dark fortnight—to a big charnel ground. Standing at a cremation spot with one’s face toward the south, naked and with loose hair, one should hold the sealed vessel and recite the mantra, angry and fearless, ten thousand times
The ashes will thus become empowered. {.
“Should any nonhuman being then request a power substance, one should not give it, but apply force, recollecting Lord of Wrath and employing his syllable hūṁ 
[The spirit] will die that very instant. This method is in particular for all the vighnas
One should make an ash mark with the ashes held in the left or the right hand. {.} “Having performed the protection [rite] with care, one should return [to the abandoned house] before dawn
At sunrise, one should wash oneself and, when clean, put on clean clothes and go to one’s own house or a place of one’s choice. {.
“Then, if one takes the ashes with one’s right hand and throws them at the head of any male being, whether two-legged or four-legged—a man, a god, a nāga , or a yakṣa —he will become enthralled
If one takes the ashes with one’s left hand and throws them at the head of any female being, whether human or nonhuman, she will become enthralled. {.
“If one takes the ashes with one’s right hand and strikes with them a man around the navel, he will become a eunuch. Or, if one sprinkles the ashes onto his private parts, he will not be able to have sex. {.
“If one sprinkles some ash onto the private part of the woman that one is fond of, she will not be able to have sex with another man
She will be free from lesions
but whenever she returns to the other man again, the lesions will clearly manifest
She will thus be unable to indulge in her inappropriate passion. {.
“Likewise, if one sprinkles the ash onto a man’s penis with one’s right hand
he will be not be able to have sex when frequenting the wives of others
His penis will be as if completely withered
The erection, however, will return when he submits to the will of whoever administered the ashes
Whoever administers the ashes, whether it is a woman to a man or the other way around, the recipient will come under his or her power
According to their wish, the recipient will either remain or not remain under their control. {.
“If the ashes are administered to men who rape their partner, their private parts will become infested with worms, eaten by which they will lose their lives
Within one month their bodies will fester, smelling foul and looking like corpses
They will contract male diseases, such as the ‘great discharge’ and so forth. They will develop cancer , and when they do, the torment of it will kill them
Or, if this is the wish of the person who administers the ashes, they will just be unable to enjoy anything
One can make all this happen with a mere touch, if one wants to. {.
“If one cannot physically touch the target, one should stand within the range of sight, [and if this is not possible], outside the range of sight, and cast the ashes with the wind, so that some of it settles on the target. The dispenser should thus cast the ashes making a wish
Whatever acts he thinks of, he will realize all of them, whether by his own or somebody else’s hand. All of them will come to pass according to his wish, and not otherwise. {.
“One can also sprinkle the ashes onto beds, seats, and so on; spreads, covers, and so on; different types of adornments, different clothes, riding animals, vehicles, shoes, parasols, and so on; any types of tools; all the things necessary for the body; cooked and uncooked food and drink; crockery and cutlery; or flowers, betel, fruit, perfume, incense, and so on. If one besprinkles any of these, the body of the enemy will become infested with and bitten by lice, fleas, and worms all over
He will be smitten by suffering of different kinds and will die within seven nights. Neither physicians nor gods will be able to stop it
No mantras will be able to protect him and nobody will be able to help, except for the one who administered the ashes. {.
“The following is the remedial procedure. One should blend together licorice root, blue lotus, and white sandalwood
One should mash these ingredients together with cool water and smear [the paste on the target’s body], starting from the head and ending with the soles of the feet, while reciting the mantra of Noble Mañjuśrī. The target will become well again. {.
“There is also another rite. One should employ it only against all the wicked witches, swollen with pride, and no other women
Having gone upwind from the woman intended as the target, one should cast the ashes toward her with the wind. If one does the corresponding visualization, her vagina and breasts will completely disappear
If the same is done to a man, he will lose his male organ and his facial and bodily hair and develop breasts
In this way, one may perform, or have someone else perform, many different and unusual acts
One may engage for this purpose someone whom one likes, either a woman or a man. {.
“Alternatively, one may pass on the ashes to and engage in the desired [task] an accomplice that one does not like
If one duly instructs him in the procedure
the target will be seized, accordingly, by a serious illness or other disorder
Touching the head in combination with the appropriate visualization causes [the target] to develop a severe headache
Touching the mouth will cause an inflammation of the mouth
Following in this order, the target may develop an acute chest pain or stomachache
Similarly, touching the legs and the feet will result in [the legs and feet of the target] developing blood-related diseases, when the blood goes bad. {.
“In short, one can cause death, loss of vitality, or inflammation with suppuration
One can also summon or enthrall the target. Whatever [the ashes] are employed for, all of that will be accomplished
One can bring harm upon, summon, or enthrall the target, even if one is far away. {.
“One should go next to a wall that is difficult to breach and, standing upwind, cast the ashes held in both hands
The wall, the main gateway, and the watchtower will crumble
The residence that will subsequently come into view will go up in flames, and the defending army will be routed
Plagued by great calamities, the target will either flee, leaving everything behind, or will give himself up as prisoner. {.
“Similarly, if one throws the ashes with the wind at the enemy forces, even a powerful army will be defeated
It will be seized with a great febrility or fever and its elephants, horses, chariots, banners, and so forth, including the general, will be destroyed or taken prisoner. {.
“One can thus perform many different rites as necessary, whether they are to destroy the enemy or afford protection for oneself, one’s own army, and one’s allies
To completely undo the harm ever inflicted on any target, one should offer one thousand oblations of milk in front of the painting. They will again become strong and well. {.
“If one wants to perform magic on a yakṣiṇī— Naṭī , Naṭṭā, and Bhaṭṭā; One known as Revatī; And Tamasundarī, Ālokā, Mekhalā, and Sumekhalā— These eight yakṣiṇī
Can grant every desire. {.
“The mantra of Naṭikā is: “ Oṁ Naṭī , great Naṭī ! Come, come in your divine form! Svāhā! 
“One should draw this vidyā on a slab or a tablet and recite her mantra one thousand and eight times while living on a diet of meat or milk
She should be drawn adorned with all the ornaments, of pure dark complexion, next to a tree
She wears a single garment, has loose hair and red eyes, and is smiling a little. She displays the threatening mudrā toward the practitioner with her right hand and holds on to a branch of the tree with the left
All her limbs are adorned, and she is wearing a brightly colored, silken sash. {.
“One should position oneself before the painting of the same Lord of Wrath, alert in mind and facing north, and light a fire of dhak sticks. One should offer into it, at the three junctions of the day for seven days, one thousand and eight bdellium pills smeared with curds, honey, and ghee
One the seventh day, one should make an extensive bali offering, lighting butter lamps and reciting the mantra until midnight. The yakṣiṇī will then arrive in person in her own form, effulgent with great light. {.
“When she arrives, she will say, ‘What can I do for you?
The practitioner should reply, ‘Be my wife.
She will then say, ‘So be it!’ and will disappear
From then on, she will be the practitioner’s wife. She will grant his every wish and take him to her abode
He will obtain there an elixir of long life, and upon drinking it he will obtain a divine form, equal to the great yakṣa
If she does not arrive, the second time one should include in the recitation [the mantra of] Lord of Wrath , and she will certainly come
If not, she will wither and die. {.
“The mantra of Naṭṭā is
“ Oṁ Naṭṭā! Wearing white garments and garlands, and fond of sex! Svāhā
“Her ritual procedure is the same as the previous. {.
“The mantra of Bhaṭṭā is
“ Oṁ Bhaṭṭā, Bhaṭṭā! Splendorous one, why do you tarry? Come, come! Arrive, arrive! Do my bidding! Svāhā
“Her rite can be accomplished even without the painting
One should draw a maṇḍala in a prominent spot and recite her mantra one thousand and eight times while burning an incense of bdellium
If one does this without engaging in talk, alone, pure, and behind closed doors, she will certainly arrive within one month, at nighttime. {.} “When she arrives, the practitioner should make love to her, and she will become his wife who grants every wish
If he enters her house, he will live five thousand years
If not, he will stay in Jambūdvīpa and live five hundred years, playing with her
She will carry out his every command
She will go with him, wherever he wishes. She will procure for him the elixir of longevity, and, just as a beloved wife does, will act with the best of intentions. {.
“The mantra of Revatī is, ‘ Homage to all the yakṣiṇīs!’ [The mantra to recite is]: “ Oṁ , red one with a red glow and wearing red unguents! Svāhā
“Revatī is a distinguished yakṣiṇī, Playful and fond of sex
She wears a soft-red garment And has blue, curly hair. {.
“This yakṣa lady is adorned on every lim
And always delights in the pleasures of sex
She always grants wishes and gives pleasure
One should depict her displaying a boon-granting gesture. {.
“Her painting should be done as before, except that Revatī is wearing garments of red silk, including an upper garment of the same material
Her complexion has a reddish glow. {.
“The mantra of Mekhalā is: “ Oṁ Mekhalā! Great yakṣiṇī! Please do my bidding! Svāha! {.
“The mantra of Sumekhalā is: “ Oṁ Mekhalā, Sumekhalā! Great yakṣiṇī who fulfills every purpose, hūṁ ! Remember your samaya! Svāha! {.
“The mantra of Ālokinī is: “ Oṁ Lokinī! Lokavatī! Svāhā
“The ritual procedure of the [last three] yakṣiṇīs is the same as before. {.
“The mantra of Tamasundarī is: “ Oṁ ghuṇu! Ghuṇu, ghuṇu , O secret one! Come, come, O guhyakī! Svāhā
“As for her practice, no painting of her is prescribed
One should start during a full moon, wearing clean clothes and being clean oneself, in a secluded place . . . . One should firmly shut the door and recite her vidyā ten thousand times in complete and utter darkness. This constitutes the preliminary practice. {.
“Afterward, one should begin the formal practice
One should start during a full moon and perform the rite until the next full moon, doing it alone at night in an isolated and hidden place, when it is time to sleep and one is in bed with the door closed, in complete and utter darkness
One should blend closed lotus buds and vānapuṣpa with white mustard oil and rub it onto one’s hands and feet. One should incant the right arm one hundred and eight times and go to sleep in silence
If one does this every day until the next full moon, then Tamasundarī will arrive for certain at midnight. {.
“When she arrives, one should not engage her in conversation but make love to her in silence
If, within six months, she starts conversing, one should join in
From then on she will be an accomplished object of the practice, becoming one’s wife who grants every desire and whose soft touch gives divine pleasure
She will perform all tasks even when she is out of sigh
and will also procure the essential elixir of longevity. {.
“Taking the practitioner upon her back
At night, she will take him all the way around Jambūdvīpa
She will crush one’s enemies, even at a distance of one hundred leagues
Whatever she is ordered to do will turn out well
except for sexual advances on other women
This rule applies to all the yakṣiṇīs. One must not approach other women but cohabit only with them
If one goes to other women, they will cause death or insanity. {.
“This yakṣiṇī, [also] called Andhārasundarī, is surrounded by many hundreds of thousands of yakṣiṇīs. When accomplished as an object of practice by any practitioner, she dispatches, every single day, one yakṣiṇī-servant for each of them
She has a retinue of many ministers, all of them yakṣiṇīs, among whom she is distinguished by her great miraculous power and her cover of darkness. As the ritual procedure is the same for all of them, could one see any of them? It is not possible to see her. {.
“Among the yakṣiṇīs, famous throughout the world, There is also Andhāravāsinī, Endowed with great miraculous power, Guhāvāsinī, Naravīrā, Yakṣakumārī, {.} “Vadhūyakṣiṇī, Manojñā, And the seventh, Surasundarī. These seven yakṣiṇīs perform Acts of kindness for sentient beings. {.
“They wander around this world And the entire earth. Within a brief moment, They can ascend to the world of the gods. {.
“Being endowed with great miraculous powers, They take part in battles between the gods and the daityas
They are virtuous, compassionate, and lovingly tender Toward beings for whom they are objects of desire. {.} “They wander upon the earth, Intent upon helping sentient beings
Nothing is difficult for them to accomplish, And they do a splendid job with every task
The Bodhisattva taught [their rites] To bring enjoyment to beings. {.
“The mantra of Guhāvāsinī is: “ Oṁ Guhilā , Guhāmati, Guhāvāsinī! Please come, O blessed one, close to me! Remember your samaya! Svāhā
“One should light a fire with sticks of cutch wood and offer into it, at the three junctions of the day for one month, one thousand and eight oblations of beautyberry flowers smeared with ghee. This constitutes the preliminary practice. {.
“Afterward, one should begin the formal practice
Using uncontaminated paints, a new brush, and a new paint container, one should first draw the king of mountains, Mount Sumeru, either on a tablet, or a piece of cloth, or a wall. It has four slopes and four lofty peaks and is surrounded by a range of seven mountains
At the outer edge of these mountains, one should draw a cave that is situated in a mountainside. {.
“In there, one should draw a single, divinely beautiful yakṣiṇī called Guhāvāsinī, adorned with all the ornaments and wearing lower and upper garments of fine silk
She has a golden complexion and a strikingly beautiful form
One should draw the painting like tha
and recite the vidyā [of Guhāvāsinī] ten thousand times, staying in a clean place, oneself clean and living off a diet of milk
One should offer a large pūjā, or one according to one’s means. Then, at the end of recitation, the yakṣiṇī will arrive in person, in her divinely beautiful form, effulgent with great light. {.
“When she has arrived, one should give her a welcome offering of water mixed with white sandalwood and jasmine flowers
She will say, ‘Child, what can I do for you?
One should say, ‘Please be my mother.
She will reply, ‘So be it!’ and will disappear
One must not hurt her feelings and not request anything that is tainted with sensuality
She is noble and very dignified, so if one requests sensual pleasures one will not succeed. From then on, she will perform all the duties like a mother. {.
“She will also provide food and clothes to one hundred and eight people from one’s retinue
She will protect one in difficult situations
She will carry out all her duties, even if one were staying in a deep forest or on the top of a mountain
She will provide one’s favorite food and all other things
such as the essential elixir of life and so forth. Complying with one’s wishes, whatever they are
she will magically create a monk’s hut, a family house, or another shelter
Every single day she will give one thousand pieces of gold
which must all be spent that very day
If one does not spend it all, it will be cut back
If one keeps it all, none will remain. {.
“There is also another rite of Guhāvāsinī. One should light a fire in front of the same painting with sticks of cutch wood [and bring it to the stage where] the embers emit no flames or smoke. Using red arsenic, one should draw on the palm of one’s right hand the image and the name of a man or, if it is a woman, on the palm of one’s left hand, and heat it over the same heap of embers while reciting the mantra
Guhāvāsinī will summon them even from the distance of one hundred leagues and will compel them to do everything that was asked
This rite should be performed at night, not during the day. {.
“The mantra of Naravīrā is: “ Oṁ Naravīrā! Svāhā
“Her painting should be executed exactly the same as [the painting of Guhāvāsinī], except for the cave dwelling
Instead, Naravīrā should be drawn next to an aśoka tree
The entire ritual is just like that of Guhāvāsinī
except that Naravīrā should be addressed, ‘Please be my sister!’ {.
“There is also another rite of Naravīrā
During a lunar eclipse, one should wrap some red ocher in a piece of birch bark, put it in one’s mouth, and recite the mantra until the moon comes out of eclipse
Then, whichever woman’s name one writes with this ocher, Naravīrā will summon her even from a distance of one hundred leagues
and in the morning she will take her back to her original place
She will do everything just as a sister would
In the event of disasters, she will offer great protection
One can enthrall any woman by merely reciting the mantra
This is the rite of Naravīrā. {.
“The mantra of Yakṣakumārī is: “ Oṁ Yakṣakumārī! Svāhā
“Her practice is as follows
She should be drawn on a piece of birch bark, using bovine bezoar, as a young girl with slightly curly hair, adorned with all the ornaments, and wearing a single piece of clothing. In her right hand she is holding a fruit filled with seeds, and with the other she is holding onto a branch of an aśoka tree. {.} “One should place this piece of birch bark above the place where one’s head is going to be and sleep alone in a hidden place
One should draw a maṇḍala with white sandalwood paste and, at the three junctions of the day, bestrew it with jasmine flowers, burn an incense of bdellium, and recite the vidyā one thousand and eight times
One should do this for a period of one month. {.
“Then, during the full moon, one should prepare a large pūjā with jasmine flowers and offer butter lamps and food articles. At nighttime, sitting on a bundle of kuśa grass, one should recite the mantra until Kumārī, the daughter of Vaiśravaṇa, arrives in her usual form along with a retinue of five hundred
Drawing one’s attention to the entire region [of the sky], she will remain naturally suspended in midair. She will ask
‘What can I do for you?’ The practitioner should then request from her one of the three boons—that she either be his mother, sister, or wife. {.
“If she becomes one’s mother, one must not hurt her feelings
If one does, ruin will follow. One must treat her like a mother
and she, the mother, will fully provide an assortment of foodstuffs, clothes, and adornments for oneself and a retinue of five hundred, if these things are merely wished for
Every day, she will give one thousand dinars. She will provide everything for as long as one is living here in Jambūdvīpa. {.
“If she becomes one’s sister, she will summon a woman [for the practitioner], even from a distance of one hundred leagues, and then take her back to her original place
She will perform all the duties like a sister
If she becomes a wife, she will take the practitioner to her own house, where one will live for one thousand celestial years
After one dies, one will be reborn in a wealthy family
Like a wife, she will carry out every order. {.
“The mantra of Vadhūyakṣiṇī is: “ Oṁ niḥ
“She is a wife-yakṣiṇī, and her rite is as follows. One should anoint one’s right arm with white sandalwood and the left one with saffron, and incant them with the mantra one thousand times
At nighttime, in a hidden place, alone and silent, one should firmly shut the door, throw into sesame oil five or eight beleric myrobalan fruits, and cook them. {.
“Discarding the myrobalan fruits, one should take the oil and put it in a new vessel made of gold, silver, copper, or clay, and place it on the bed where the feet are
One should incant the oil one thousand times with the one-syllable yakṣiṇī mantra and go to sleep in the same bed, placed in a dark, secluded place and strewn with flowers. {.
“When the nonhuman lady arrives, she will anoint one’s feet [with the incanted oil]. Upon being touched with the palm of her lotus-like hand whose touch gives divine pleasure, one will experience, through this pleasurable touch, a divinely blissful sleep
When the sun rises at the end of the night, one will wake up with unease, and even when awake, one will keep thinking about her
However, one should not make love to her or engage her in conversation. Within six months, she will be accomplished as an object of practice. {.
“After the six months have passed, she will arrive in her beautiful form, excited like a newly wedded wife, surrounded by a retinue of servants, with a lamp in her hand and splendid with her own radiance. She will snuggle in the bed or a seat, her colorful adornments blazing forth, and will start a conversation
She will approach holding the implements of sexual enjoyment and will embrace the practitioner around the neck. {.
“From then on, she will follow him like a beloved wife
When she arrives, one should make love to her
She will keep one’s company through the night and disappear in the morning, leaving behind on the bed a pearl necklace worth one thousand pieces of gold
Every day, she will leave it behind and then depart. One must spend absolutely all of it
If one keeps any of it, no more will come
One must not tell anyone
If one does, one will get no more
or else one will incur some adversity that will end in one’s death
This is because these yakṣiṇīs are exceedingly secretive and discreet, and they will not tolerate another person being told about them. {.
“One must not tell even one’s mother, father, friend, supervisor, or relative, not even a pet or another animal, as this is most secret
This rule applies to all the guhyakas and all the yakṣiṇīs
Even if they have been accomplished as an object of practice, they will cease to be so if one divulges the secret
Also, one must never approach other women for sex, not even one’s wife. {.
“The mantra of Manojñā is: “ Oṁ , you captivate the mind! You intoxicate and drive one insane! You are stunningly beautiful and fond of sex. Svāhā
“Her practice is as follows. One should build a secluded hut within a garden enclosure, below an aśoka tree. It should be well hidden and have a high wall with a paneled, bolted door. Maintaining purity, one should recite the mantra one hundred thousand times. {.
“Afterward, one should perform the ritual
One should procure human fat, make a wick out of a textile from a charnel ground, firmly shut the door, and light a lamp
One should place a cloth that is hemmed, is brand new, and does not have any loose fibers on the outside of the door
At night, when Manojñā arrives naked, she will dress in this cloth and enter the hut, assuming the form of a female human . The practitioner will then enjoy sex with her for as long as the lamp is burning. {.
“When the lamp burns out, Manojñā will disappear
She will leave the bed, leaving behind the cloth [that she wore] with a piece of gold tied in it
At that time one should grasp her by the hand. She will walk away, letting the rings slip off her fingers one by one
If one grasps [her] by the neck, she will relinquish her pearl necklace; if by the arm, she will let her arm bracelet slip off; if by the hips, her girdle; if by the feet, her anklets; and if by the head, her diadem. In this way, wherever one grasps her, from that place she will give a divine ornament, one after another. {.
“Her departures and her arrivals are thus not without gain
As before, one must spend it all each day, so that there is nothing left
When six months have passed in this way, she will start talking
One should then join the conversation and she will become one’s wife
Ever present, she will procure the elixir of longevity, drinking which one will live long
If one drives a stake of cutch wood into the ground while performing the relevant visualization, a divine palace will appear. When the stake is pulled out, it will disappear. {.
“The second mantra of Manojñā is: “ Oṁ , O great naked one! You were born naked! Svāhā
“One should light a lamp made of exactly the same components as before and incant the lamp one hundred and eight times, thus compelling [Manojñā] to act
She will certainly arrive
Alternatively, one can incant a stake and drive it into the ground
When the stake is then pulled out, or when the lamp has burnt out, she will disappear
One may also take [the accessories]—the stake; the human fat in a horn of a cow, a gaur, or a buffalo; and the wick made of a charnel-ground rag—somewhere else, where one can do the rite oneself or give [the accessories] to a person of one’s choice
However, one must not pass on the mantra
If one does, one will nullify its magical power. {.
“Whoever one gives [this paraphernalia] to, everything will turn out for them exactly the same way
Whatever the desired outcome, whatever the hidden location where the rite is performed, the accomplishment will not be in vain
Moreover, one can have other men experience the joy of sex, but should not discuss it with them
Because of the power of the practitioner, the compliant [Manojñā] will approach a new partner to her liking, who is longing to see other women. {.
“The mantra of Surasundarī is: “ Oṁ Surasundarī! Svāhā
“Her practice is as follows. One should light a fire with sticks of cutch wood and offer into it one thousand and eight oblations of ghee at the three junctions of the day, for a period of one month
Then, during the full moon, one should sit on a bundle of kuśa grass in a clean, secluded place, and, oneself pure, recite the mantra until midnight, and she will certainly come
Then, one should carry out everything exactly as before, choosing her as one’s mother, sister, or wife, and saying everything just as before. {.
“By Vajrapāṇi’s command, These seven yakṣiṇīs Roam the entire earth, As well as the triple universe with its gods and demigods. {.
“Fond of sex with mortals, They associate with those who have compassion
Some yakṣiṇīs are noble, While others are naive and foolish. {.
“Yet others wander at night, Assuming the form of a lion. Fond of eating flesh, They are eager to take the life of children. {.
“They come to Jambūdvīpa Attracted by the scent of blood
Such yakṣiṇīs, ever fond of blood, Take the life force away. {.
“They visit all the unprotected houses In which children have died
This samaya has been taught For the purpose of restraining these yakṣiṇīs. {.
“All this has been taught To benefit beings By attracting, impassioning, and binding Such foolish yakṣiṇīs. {.
“If the mantra practitioner is motivated by sex, Blinded by passion, and deluded in mind, He may, having summoned her by the means of mantras, Carnally enjoy a yakṣiṇī, a rākṣasī, A nāginī, a gandharvī, A daitya lady, or a kinnarī. {.
“A mantra adept may likewise enter Pleasant subterranean palaces And the finest cities of the asuras, With infinite numbers of women. Once there, such a mantra reciter and adept Will live for one eon. {.
“When Maitreya, a fully realized buddha, Becomes [the next] Buddha, He will teach the sacred Dharma, upon the hearing of which The mantra adept will become liberated. {.
“Having summoned with mantras A celestial girl, an asurī, Or the finest vidyādhara lady, He will enjoy with her the divine bliss of sex. {.
“A mantra follower who lives in Jambūdvīpa Can always summon her there
Then, in a clean and hidden place, He always delights in pure conduct. {.
“The highest accomplishment Will never arise for fools
One should never touch a human female, Who, full of piss and shit, is always a seat of impurity, {.
“Foul-smelling and putrid. She is a receptacle of suffering, destined to die, And afflicted by disease and grief
Sex with her will end in separation. {.} “She is impermanent, a source of suffering, Empty, vacant, void, and will not last
She is the deceiver of the naive And a source of false concepts. {.
“The mantra practitioner should not indulge, out of desire, In any passions that have been arising since beginningless time
Emancipation attained in their midst Is referred to as their cessation. {.} “One’s mantras will succeed If they are not motivated by desire
One should worship those that possess ambrosia And are unstained by feces, urine, and blood. {.} “One should not touch the body of a woman That is subject to old age, death, and great anguish
One should not have sex with her, As she is blinded by delusion and concupiscent at heart
The mantra practitioner will not attain accomplishment If he approaches them sexually, remaining ever impure. {.
“On the other hand, a mantra reciter and adept Who has insight, has conquered his senses, And delights in pure conduct Can always master any mantra. {.
“Other yakṣiṇīs with great magical power Are, invariably, Padmoccā, Pramodā, Ajitā, and Jayā, As well as the yakṣiṇī Śyāmāvatī. {.
“The mantra of Padmoccā is: “ Oṁ Padmoccā! Svāhā
“Her practice is as follows. One should build a hut on the banks of the Gaṅgā, in the ocean shore, or in a flower garden
The hut and oneself should be clean
Using clay, one should make a form shaped like a stone slab and firmly shut the door
One should collect all the requisites for making love and prepare a bed for the yakṣiṇī next to one’s own
One should then recite her vidyā ten thousand times. {.
“If one continues in this manner, she will certainly arrive within one month
When she does, one should make love to her and she will become one’s wife
She will leave in the morning, leaving behind a celestial pearl necklace
And so it will be every day, until, within six months, she will remain permanently
One must not hold on to that pearl necklace
If one does, this will be the only thing one will ever get
This necklace, adorned with jewels and gems, is worth one hundred thousand dinars. {.
“After six months have passed
Padmoccā will remain permanently as a wife who fulfills all desires. Whatever form one wants her to assume, she will attend upon one in that form
She will magically transform herself into the form that is pleasing to the practitioner, according to his wish
This procedure applies to all the yakṣiṇīs
The instructions given for the yakṣiṇīs here apply also to other yakṣiṇīs. {.
“The mantra of Jayā is: “ Oṁ Jayā , auspicious Jayā , one who is victorious! Perform all the tasks for me! Svāhā
“Her fine body has a golden glow, And her curly hair is blue
This goddess is beautiful in every limb, Gentle, gracious, and charming. {.
“She is an intoxicating speaker of pleasant words And a superior woman with a beautiful form, pleasant to look at
Bright with her excellent features like the evening star, She is worshiped by the whole world
Wearing, in addition, a soft-red garment— This is how Jayā is described. {.
“Her practice is as follows. First, one should recite her mantra one hundred thousand times; this constitutes the preliminary service
Then, one should go to a large forest and, living on fruits, recite her mantra until Jayā arrives in person
When she does, she will ask, ‘What can I do for you?
If she becomes one’s mother, she will, like a mother, fulfill one’s every wish
She will grant a kingdom, make one the owner of great wealth, and ensure that one lives a long life. {.
“If she becomes one’s sister, she will summon a woman as desired even from a distance of one thousand leagues
Every single day she will give one hundred thousand dinars. One must spend all of this
If she becomes one’s wife, she will take one to her own abode
Living in a celestial palace, one will engage in a delightful play with her for a long time
For thirty thousand years, one will do whatever one likes, equal to the great yakṣa. {.
“The mantra of Pramodā is: “ Oṁ ṣṭhrīḥ hrīḥ ! O great nude! Hūṁ, phaṭ, svāhā
“Her practice is as follows. One should recite her mantra at midnight without counting
If one does not go back to sleep, Pramodā will certainly arrive within one month
She will become a wife who fulfills every desire
Every single day she will provide twenty-five dinar
and offer sexual delights personally
In addition, she will ensure long life for the practitioner. {.
“There are uncountable hundreds of thousands of yakṣiṇīs
So, too, there are innumerable piśācīs of great power, nāga girls, asura girls, apsarases, girls of the lower celestial ( sura ) orders, and daitya girls
The same is true for the vidyādharīs and all the human and nonhuman females. All of them without exception have their respective mantras, which are likewise innumerable
In the same way there are mantras of the male yakṣa s, gods, nāga s, ṛṣis, gandharvas, asuras, pretas, and rākṣasas; of Mahābrahmā, Maheśvara, and Viṣṇu; and also of the mātṛs, headed by Indrāṇī, Cāmuṇḍā, and Vārāhī. All these beings have been individually summoned here on this occasion
They have been brought here by Lord of Wrath Yamāntaka, seized by him, established in the samaya, and thus made subordinate to Mañjughoṣa
They stand here in the right order as his retinue and attendants. {.
“[The rite] for each of them, in short, is as follows
One should recite the Lord of Wrath Yamāntaka—either in a place where there is an image or having made such an image oneself —until the image shakes and then moves or starts perspiring
Then [the being portrayed in the image] will arrive in its own form and will do everything it is asked to. {.
“In the same way, one can [practice] also the ‘four virgins.’ These great yakṣiṇīs, who have Tumburu as their brother, live, in their celestial forms, upon the ocean aboard a boat
They practice kindness to beings and are worshiped by the whole world. The same procedure may be used also for them, namely, {.
“They should be either drawn or etched On a piece of cloth, a slab of stone, or a plank, Riding in a boat, Where they attend to their elder brother. {.} “These four girls travel together Within the confines of the ocean
One should set up their image in a hidden place And begin the practice by reciting the [Lord of] Wrath. {.
“They will start moving, shaking, Or sweating all over
Knowing by this that they are accomplished, The mantra reciter should stop reciting. {.
“Appearing, at the end of the night, in their usual form, They will tell the practitioner what is good and what is bad for him
They will accomplish The reciter’s every aim. {.
“Summoned and stunned by [Lord of] Wrath, They will do everything as commanded
Soma and other prominent planets, The ṛṣis, the rākṣasas, {.} “The piśācas, and the garuḍas Worship these four powerful sisters
Also Maheśvara and other gods like him Worship these majestic ladies. {.
“They also taught their extensive rituals And their own mantra systems. All of them may be employed, Along with their extensive rites
All these [mantra deities] remain in the thrall Of Lord of Wrath , without any effort on his part. {.
“However many mantras there are That originate from impure spirits and dry up [the life of beings], All of them were taught And prescribed by Lord of Wrath. {.
“The noble and distinguished mantras, on the other hand, That are universally applicable, The foremost mantras, exalted and excellent, Were taught by the eminent victor
And also by myself In the capacity of the mantra holder. {.
“Whatever other prominent mantras there are That are associated with [any of] the five families— Those taught by the sons of the victors And also the powerful worldly mantras— {.
“The powerful Lord of Wrath Has collected all of them And included them in this teaching Along with the mantra methods for all of them. {.
“Whatever procedure was designated for whatever mantra
He prescribed for that mantra precisely that procedure
As for the [mantra of] Lord of Wrath Yamāntaka, however, It is supremely suited for every activity. {.
“The mantras of Tārā, Bhṛkuṭī, and Pāṇḍaravāsinī; Those of the vidyā Mahāśvetā And of Māmakī of the Vajra family; {.
“The mantras of every female uṣṇīṣa emanation — In particular of the goddess Locanā— And of every [other] vidyā from the Tathāgata family; The mantras of the sagacious Mañjughoṣa, {.} “Mahā­sthāma­prāpta, Samantabhadra, And the lord Padmapāṇi
The mantras that I have taught Of the lord of the yakṣa s, a very powerful bodhisattva, {.
“And of the [other] victors’ sons That are known throughout the whole world; The mantras of my sagacious sons Vajrasena and Suṣena — {.
“All these mantras, which I have taught, Must not be disparaged
All of them must be worshiped, and, it is taught, Never transgressed against. {.
“The reciter must not employ The venerable Lord of Wrath against the
And must never break his vidyā connection With these mantra deities. {.
“One may practice all the worldly Mantra deities, according to the rite, Such as Umā, Śaṅkara, Brahmā, Or the venerable Hari, Using the mantras as found in the respective tantras And performing the rites, for each of them, accordingly. {.
“One may do every rite Of every mantra deity in every way With the knowledge, however, that the action Of every [such] mantra derives from [Lord of] Wrath. {.
“The mantra Lord of Wrath, Known by the name of Yamāntaka, Can swiftly summon and strike Even the great being Yama. {.
“Also, the great beings such as Śakra, or Vaivasvata who brings death, Can be summoned and enthralled
This terrible lord is the tamer of the hard to tame. {.
“This mantra is the great mantra taught By the sweet-spoken Mañjughoṣa
It is suitable for all rites, is fierce, And makes all other mantras effective.” {.
Having said this, venerable Vajrapāṇi, One of great miraculous power, Bowed to the Buddha, the Lion of the Śākyas, The great hero supreme among men
Then the vajra holder who dwells in the circle of mantra beings Taught the mantra of great magical power. {.
“Listen, all of you sentient beings, And all of you virtuous hosts of spirits
And all of you overseers of the hosts of mantras! I will teach this supreme mantra {.
“That was taught by the sagacious Bodhisattva Mañjughoṣa
A terrible mantra that tames those difficult to tame And restrains all the wicked ones. {.
innumerable gods from the realm of the Thirty-Three, headed by Śakra
“Knowledge is their arrester; It is the cause and the producer of happiness. It is said to be the destroyer of suffering; In short, knowledge prevents suffering. {.
“That is the very reason that I taught a threefold vehicle
Everything conditioned changes from moment to moment; It is all impermanent, suffused with suffering, and lacking self-essence. {.
“The entire prison of existence is taught As being empty at all times
Beings who belong to the Buddha family and have developed An aversion to this prison are divided into three groups: {.
“ The bodhisattvas who later become buddhas,  Those who attain awakening on their own
And further there are  the arhats, Devoid of passion and very powerful. {.} “The arhats attain the awakening of the śrāvakas And obtain the three types of peace
In short, I gave this teaching To show what is virtuous and what is not. {.
“One should always shun nonvirtue And practice virtue at all times
The Dharma that is taught Is to never harm any sentient being. {.
“Regarding the dharmas of the five destinies, Only one constitutes the path
It is the dharma that is free from karmic influences And is rooted in ultimate reality. {.
“It is the same path that was taught By the primordial buddhas of the past
I also taught it in full, Propelling beings toward the peace of nirvāṇa. {.
“Relying on this ultimate dharma, One will attain the ultimate reality
The ultimate reality that is described As the absence of limits common to all the dharmas. {.
“This dharma, in short, Has been explained as twofold
Listen, all you gods, And you bodhisattvas with great powers! {.
“Arhats, śrāvakas, listen to me
When I attain nirvāṇa on earth, It will be in the middle of the Sāla Grove At the foothills of the Himalayas, {.
“On the banks of the Hiraṇyavatī That flows through the country of the Mallas
There, in the middle of the Yamakasāla Grove, I will attain nirvāṇa. {.
“In the city named Pāvā, Near the Makuṭabandhana shrine
On the pleasant bank of the river, I will attain nirvāṇa on earth. {.
“All the bodhisattvas, The śrāvakas with great magical powers, The gods, nāga s, and yakṣa s, The powerful guardians of the world, {.
“The Śakras, Brahmās, and Suyāmas, As well as the gods of Akaniṣṭha , and so forth— All of them will gather At that place. {.
“There, in the Yamakasāla Grove, In the country of the Mallas, Between the northern bank of the Gaṅgā And the western bank of the Mahī, {.
“On the south side of the Himalayas, In the Sāla Grove— In that place there will also be My final resting place. {.
“At that time, on the pleasant bank of the river, On its sloping bank described as golden, All the hosts of gods And other beings will gather. {.
“All the most eminent human kings, And beings of human and nonhuman origin Such as all the spirits and mortal beings, Both the naive and the mature, {.
“Will gather at that place For that public event of great magnitude
This divine celebration Will be on the account of my physical remains. {.} “Stepping then into the immaterial, I will attain the peace of nirvāṇa. Leaving behind phenomenal reality, I will enter the ultimate reality. {.
“My final birth occurred In the city of Kapilavastu Within the illustrious family of the Śākyas, Where I was born into the prison of existence. {.
“Then, leaving behind its inherent suffering, I went forth from my home
I visited many holy places But still did not find the elixir of immortality. {.
“I practiced severe austerities, Mortifying my body
Having fasted for six years, I was on the verge of dying from exhaustion, {.} “But I did not find anything That would reveal [true] knowledge to me
I got up, therefore, and partook of some food— A delicious milk porridge. {.
“Following the road indicated to me by the gods, I traveled across the land, To the bank of the Nairañjanā River, Beautified by kingly trees, {.
“Where the salty ground Was strewn with various flowers, And fine forest fruits abounded, Produced by various trees. {.
“Walking along the great river, I came, in the end, to the foot of a tree
As soon as I saw that this place was right for me, A firm resolve was born in me. {.
“Seeing also that this large tree Was adorned with leafy branches That afforded plenty of shade And had root spurs that provided shelter, {.
“I attained aśvattha -hood during the aśvattha, Sitting at the foot of that [ aśvattha ] tree
There, I attained stability, Concentration, and samādhi
At the end of the night I attained that which Is not subject to destruction and ends [the cycle of] rebirth. {.
“Māra cleverly deployed many vighnas With many different forms, But after his armies were defeated, He turned back and returned to his abode. {.
“It is because of him That many mantra systems have been taught
Along with many ritual methods, Meditative concentrations, and knowledges. {.
“The path, moreover, is threefold, To serve each of the three types of beings
The antidotes to the faults, Likewise, are taught as threefold. {.
“Then, I got up and went To Urubilvā, with its auspicious waters
Having bathed in the waters there, I visited the local sage and his disciples. {.
“After performing many acts for the sake of beings, I set out once again And in due course Entered the beautiful city of Kāśī. {.
“Having gone to the place Where the former buddhas with great powers had gone
I remained there myself Among the local Kāśī folk. {.
“Having turned the wheel of the sacred Dharma That brings the peace of nirvāṇa
I taught the Dharma there To bring about the happiness of all beings Whose existence depends on the five vital airs, Including gods and demigods. {.
“The Dharma wheel was turned there Before by the primordial buddhas
I too taught The unsurpassed Dharma wheel there. {.
“To bring the happiness of release from saṃsāra And to stop the faults of sentient beings, I turned the great wheel That brings the happiness of the final peace; {.
“The wheel that is intended to destroy the path of becoming And arises out of the samādhi of the four truths; The wheel comprised of the eightfold path And adorned with the four abodes of Brahmā; {.
“The wheel from whose felly arises knowledge, Thus blocking ignorance Along with the twelvefold cycle Of interdependent origination
{.} “The wheel that spreads the absolute truth Born, at its extreme edge, out of the ultimate reality
The wheel whose greatness arises from its felly With its forward and backward movements; {.
“The auspicious wheel that spreads instructions And brings liberation to many beings. Having thus turned the wheel, I left the pleasant city of Kāśī and proceeded to Śrāvastī. {.
“There, I humbled the tīrthikas With displays of miracles
Similarly, I displayed a miraculous feat In the district of Sāṅkāśya. {.
“Having delighted the people who live In the many places of pilgrimage, I made an auspicious descent from the realm of gods Among the people of Agnibhāṇḍa. {.
“In the realm of the Thirty-Three I introduced Śakra to the nature of phenomena
And in Akaniṣṭha , and so forth, I did the same With Brahmā and the others, including the Destroyer of Cities; {.} “The lords of yakṣa s, including Vaiśravaṇa
The hordes belonging to the four great kings; The sadāmatta and karoṭapāṇi gods; The vīṇātṛtīyaka and mālādhārin gods; {.} “All the gods and hosts of yakṣa s Who dwell on earth, in heaven, or in the space in between
The noble leaders of yakṣa hosts; And all the lower gods and asuras. {.
“I introduced them to the fruit of the Dharma And caused them to seek out the threefold nirvāṇa
I established inconceivable numbers of beings In a better state. {.} “The number of these beings is incalculable, As saṃsāra is infinite and has no end
Within great thousandfold universes dwell inconceivable numbers Of beings composed of the primary elements. {.
“Having thus introduced many beings To the true meaning, I have now arrived and remain here, Above the realm of the Pure Abode. {.
“I turned the wheel of the sacred mantra teachings That accord with the three vehicles And established beings in discipline
Further, I taught this king of manuals Throughout the entire world And am now giving it to Mañjughoṣa. {.
“When I have passed from this world into the final nirvāṇa And the earth is devoid of my presence, Mañjuśrī will continue the work of the Buddha For the sake of the beings there. {.
“In order to preserve the sacred Dharma When the victorious lords are in the state of nirvāṇa, Mañjughoṣa will always Guard it continually. {.
“This extensive manual has been taught In order to promulgate the mantra path
During the terrible and dreadful time At the end of the eon {.} “The human kings will be very violent And delight in killing one another
They will commit evil acts and follow wrong conduct
During the debased eon Enjoyments will be few, Of this there is no doubt. {.
“The kings of men will come To worship in the Sāla Grove, In the Makuṭabandhana temple, And on the banks of the Hiraṇyavatī river. {.
“When I have passed, on my bed, into final nirvāṇa And have entered the sphere of peace, My body, in a state of bliss but devoid of sensation, Will be placed upon the funeral pyre. {.
“Looking upon my former deeds, The miracles I have performed, And the guiding activity of the Buddha That leads to the propriety of conduct, {.
“And reflecting upon these auspicious and illustrious acts, All the kings, along with the gods, The asuras, and ordinary humans Will offer worship to me. {.
“All the earthly rulers, having come together, Will offer worship amidst great celebrations At that time, near to my body, There is no doubt about that. {.
“My physical body, a source of qualities, Will be placed on the funeral pyre, Its faults terminated and only the merit left. It will be free from all nonvirtue And its five empty aggregates Will now arise as the corresponding [five] realities. {.
“Upon seeing it, Many beings will acquire great merit
The great śrāvakas, great beings devoid of passions And possessed of great powers, And all the bodhisattvas Who abide on the ten levels {.
“Will all gather around, Filled with compassion for all beings
All the hosts of gods, As well as the noble and ordinary people, {.} “Will all congregate around That single place of great merit
They will attain the faith that rests upon The understanding of impermanence and suffering. {.
“All the hosts of spirits Will be near the [funerary] caitya, Making large offerings, Wailing and crying. {.
“They will shed profuse tears And sob, overwhelmed by compassion
They will lament over impermanence, Suffering, and emptiness as follows: {.
“ ‘The Buddha taught the Dharma Here on earth, in the present time
And now, this best of sages, The eminent seventh bull of a sage, Born among the Śākyas, the foremost of all beings, Is seen by us for the last time. {.
“ ‘The Blessed One, who taught us Impermanence and suffering, is lying here
He taught emptiness, the absolute truth, And he explained the meaning of primordial peace
Why, O gods, do you not wake up Our lord and master? {.
“ ‘Gathered here are all the Buddha’s sons Of great miraculous powers And the powerful śrāvakas, Rich in religious merit and courage. {.} “ ‘All the beings— men , gods, and asuras— Are thoroughly distressed
This is an occasion to continue Turning the wheel of Dharma, {.} “ ‘So rise up swiftly, O Blessed One
May the Buddha’s sojourn [on earth] continue For as long as the great ocean [of saṃsāra] lasts! Do not neglect those sinking in it, O sage! {.
“ ‘Do not disregard so many beings By staying for a long time in a samādhi-like state
Abandon meditative absorption And teach the path to peaceful nirvāṇa.’ {.
“Lamenting, they will utter Many words of this kind. {.
“Then all these powerful gods, And all their hosts, will fall silent
Having wailed so much, They will now wait, bowing respectfully. {.
“Then the gods and the asuras, Brahmā and so forth, Will cry for a long time, uttering shrill cries With stammering voices And throats choked by grief. {.
“All the human -born kings, Sitting on the ground, [will say,] ‘The liberated one born into the Śākya clan, Free from passion and very powerful
Is none other than the great Buddha, The knowing one, the god of gods.’ {.
“A young monk by the name Aniruddha, Human -born and virtuous, Distinguished by his subtlety and ability, Excelling in recitation and conduct, Surrounded by a retinue Of eminent arhats and kings, {.
“Will then say to the Malla kings and subjects Sighing in anguish, Their minds moist with compassion, The following sweet words: {.
“ ‘My friends, do not Set this pyre here aflame Until the Blessed One’s foremost son, The fount of the Dharma, has arrived. {.
“ ‘His name is Mahākāśyapa, And he is a śrāvaka of great miraculous power
He possesses the intelligence of a great sage, And was born a brahmin, free from worldliness. {.
“ ‘He was born among the Magadhans And spends his time in meditative equipoise there
On a hill, under a pipal tree that affords shelter, Near the fine city of Rājagṛha. {.
“ ‘He will swiftly arrive here; He would not do otherwise
The deity that he worships Would surely put out the kindling flame, {.} “ ‘So do not light the pyre just yet, As this would be a vain labor
[Wait] until that powerful śrāvaka, The foremost son of the Sage, {.
“ ‘Circumambulates [the remains of] the guru, The Buddha worshiped in the threefold universe. After Mahākāśyapa has bowed his head to the feet Of the Teacher who is revered throughout the world, {.
“ ‘Then you can all proceed with The lighting of the pyre. Only then will the fire In the caitya ignite
So do not, all of you, perform this vain labor That is nothing but [pointless] toil.’ {.
“Being thus told By the sagacious Aniruddha, All the Malla men and their kings Will remain seated. {.
“Because I was born among humans, And was nurtured by them, With the attendant pleasures of many kinds And other benefits, such as those arising from the arts and crafts; {.
“Because I attained awakening among humans, On earth, at the foot of the [Bodhi] tree
And because I taught, among humans, The Dharma that benefits all sentient beings, {.
“It is fit for human beings alone To light the funeral pyre
Since I attained preeminence among all beings As a human being, My peaceful final nirvāṇa Is destined to take place in the human world. {.
“Whatever buddhas came in the past, Will come in the future, or are active at present, All of them are born in a human body In this human world. {.
“All of them are born, attain awakening, Turn the auspicious Dharma wheel, And enter the peace [of final] nirvāṇa. Because the pratyeka­buddhas and the noble śrāvakas Also take a human birth and attain unsurpassable peace, This attainment is regarded as threefold. {.
“I have assisted [ human beings] For inconceivable eons
When I pass into the state of final peace, Cool and not subject to arising, I will leave behind my relics there, On the earth devoid of my presence, {.
“For the benefit of the human beings On whom I wish to bestow the benefits of worship
The relics will likewise be for the lower gods and asuras, For the ṛṣis, yakṣa s, and garuḍas, {.} “For the rākṣasas, pretas, and kuṣmāṇḍas, For the powerful piśācas, For all the spirits including The grahas and the mātṛs, {.
“And likewise for all the innumerable worlds With their inconceivable world spheres That support all [types of] life. The relics will be left behind on the earth, Destitute at that time of my presence, For the purpose of worship. {.
“Any mortals who arrive for these substances, Any celestial kings or other beings, Such as the inhabitants of the subterranean paradises, The powerful lords of the dānavas, The nāga kings, and the daityas, Will each separately take my relics. {.
“Bereft of their valued object But endowed with good qualities, These powerful beings will take [the relics] To their own abodes and worship them. {.} “All of them will become, without a doubt, Buddhas with great miraculous powers
Depending on their clarity of mind, They will fall into three categories—the highest, the lower, and the middle. {.} “They will thus become, in this threefold universe, Either buddhas, or rhinoceros-like pratyeka­buddhas, or arhats
Accordingly, there will arise in the world Three vehicles of three different types: {.
“There will be  those who become liberated Based on the practices of the path described as Great Vehicle
There will also be, at that time in the world,  Those who attain awakening and become liberated by themselves. {.
“And there will also be  the śrāvakas, Freed from passions and endowed with miraculous powers
Thus, there will be at that time in the world Beings adorned with this threefold family affiliation. {.
“Kings who enjoy great comforts Yet exercise their imperial might with great gentleness, Will enjoy, as human beings, Divine fortunes for a long time
And when they eventually die, They will attain one of the three kinds of peace. {.
“The previous buddhas since the beginning, And those of the present and future too, All followed the same course As the one displayed here. {.
“All the deities sitting there At the place of my nirvāṇa Will become disturbed and upset, And their voices will falter. {.} “They will all say at that time
‘Alas, this is impermanence
The buddhas with great miraculous powers Pass from this world into final nirvāṇa.’ {.
“All the powerful divine kings, Having said this, Will experience anguish in their hearts And will remain silent. {.
“Among the noble people of Magadha Who dwell in the city of Kuśāgrapura, Not far from there, On the mountain called Vārāha, There meditates a monk, Sheltered by [the root spurs of] a pipal tree. {.
“He is a śrāvaka and my foremost heart son, The fount of the Dharma
His name is Mahākāśyapa and he will be sitting, At that time, in his fine shelter. {.
“Having eaten his supply of alms, He will sit and reflect as follows
‘I have spent a lot of time Paying homage to the Buddha, the great sage
Now I would like to visit That supreme, spontaneously arisen person. {.
“ ‘Where is the Blessed One staying, This most virtuous sage of the Śākyas?
Mahākāśyapa, the king of brahmins, will thus focus his mind On the Blessed One while remaining at his place. {.} “He will perceive the sage of sages With his mind alone
He will also see, with the divine eye, The world [where he lives] and all the [other] worlds: {.
“ Akaniṣṭha and other such worlds With their luminous world spheres, And all the worlds that are named after all their beings And are part of great thousandfold worlds within still greater units. {.
“Looking with his divine eye As far as the śrāvakas can, He will see the Teacher passed into nirvāṇa, Peaceful, emancipated, and immaterial, {.
“Surrounded on all sides By hosts of very powerful gods As well as human kings, Asuras, yakṣa s, rākṣasas, And all the hosts of spirits, And also by the bodhisattvas with great powers, {.
“Śrāvakas of great renown Who excel in wisdom, And noble celestials and humans Both with and without passion. {.
“He will see the valiant one upon the funeral pyre— The Buddha, a relative of the sun, The god of gods, The supreme and most virtuous lord of sages, {.
“Surrounded on all sides By the earthly kings, Including the mighty Mallas, Holding in their hands lamps, fragrances, and grass torches. {.} “As explained by the monk Aniruddha, Who keeps his observances, The kings, held back by the gods, Will be unable to light the pyre. {.
“The earth goddess will wail loudly, Her voice choked by tears. There will be terrible exclamations of ‘alas, alas!’ And the sound of thunder will resound. {.
“The grove will be divinely filled with hosts of ṛṣis And apsarases singing praises
It will resound with songs of siddha s and vidyādharīs, And with the singing of kinnaras. {.
“There will be the sweet cooing And beautiful warbling of birds And lovely sounds of various instruments Played by celestials and humans. {.
“The Sāla Grove will be Filled with the songs of apsarases, Graced with the presence of siddha s and vidyādharas, And full of yogins all over. {.
“The fine bed of the bull among sages Will [thus] be surrounded on all sides
And above it, Kāśyapa will sigh with grief, Even though he is normally free from sorrow. {.
“Shedding tears, The monk Kāśyapa, Foremost among my śrāvaka-disciples, Will then collapse on the ground {.} “And promptly cry out
‘Alas! A difficult time has begun Where the Buddha, free from karmic traits, Has now passed into final nirvāṇa. {.
“ ‘He himself taught, in this world, About impermanence, suffering, and emptiness. I see nothing permanent; Everything must undergo successive rebirth.’ {.
“Kāśyapa will then quickly get up And go to the king of the Magadhans, Ajātaśatru, who will be in a state of anguish, Overwhelmed by grief for his father. {.
“Having arrived in his house, Kāśyapa will say to the king
‘O great king! The perfect Buddha, Supreme among two-legged beings, has passed into nirvāṇa. {.
“ ‘Quickly prepare a carriage, And let’s go to the Teacher’s side
He is lying on a bed on the ground, His mind free from feverish agitation
Beyond any enmity or fear, Abiding in the supreme body of bliss.’ {.
“Hearing the painful news, The king will become even more distressed
Expressing his inner lament, He will say the following words: {.
“ ‘I have lost both My Teacher and my father
I have been abandoned by all my relatives, And the people, likewise, do not trust me
When I fall into the terrible hell, In whom will I find my refuge? {.
“ ‘Protect me, O great hero, Foremost śrāvaka of the Teacher
Mahākāśyapa of great splendor! There is no life for me in this world.’ {.
“Having spoken this, the king, The chief ruler of the Magadhans, Will suddenly collapse on the ground At the feet of the distinguished śrāvaka
He will lie on the ground, stripped of his will, Motionless and unconscious. {.
“At that time, you, Mañjughoṣa, Divine youth of great magical power
Will visit places around the world With the wish to benefit beings. {.
“When my body is placed on the pyre At its location in the grove
You will also sit there, Surrounded by a host of bodhisattvas. {.
“Having prepared my body To be worshiped there, on the earth, You will look at the beings around and reflect, ‘Which of them are suffering
Whom can I save?’ {.} “When I lie there on the ground, there will be you, Divine youth with the profound understanding of the truth. You, Mañjuśrī, will be able to enthrall The greatly suffering King Ajātaśatru. {.
“Even though [Mahākāśyapa] will be there, It is you alone who will be able to guide the king
Because what is possible for the bodhisattvas Is not possible even for the magically endowed beings, Such as deities, ṛṣis, and so forth Or the pratyeka­buddhas and noble śrāvakas. {.
“The king, lying there, Will see you, Mañjughoṣa, as if in a dream
Given by you a special power, The king, fallen into a swoon from his grief, {.
“Will see in a dream The clear form of a young boy
The all-pervading, divine youth, Mañjughoṣa of great power. {.
“Through you grace, Mañjuśrī, he will see you, A bodhisattva with the form of a child Who is the magical manifestation of the Dharma, With manifold, inconceivable power. {.
“The king will fall into the Avīci hell But then will rapidly rise up Through the different states of being, His lower rebirths having been auspiciously purified
And will also experience the merits of higher births That are shunned by all the śrāvakas. {.
“When he has thus completely purified The last vestiges of his crimes, King Ajātaśatru will enjoy Immense pleasures. {.
“This teaching, presented here only briefly, Is nevertheless adorned with a wide range of distinctive meanings
It represents the speech of all the buddhas In the beginning, in the middle, and at the end. This extensive manual has thus been taught In order to benefit all beings. {.
“You, divine youth, will, at that time, With your all-reaching words of Mañjuśrī, Guide the kings Who perpetrate evil acts. {.
“The range of your miraculous powers is inconceivable, And the number of those you will guide is inconceivable too
You will become the guide For all the classes of beings.” {.
So spoke the great hero to Mañjughoṣa, The great light of the buddhas, Who, at that time, was staying Above the realm of the Pure Abode
The best of speakers, the perfect buddha, Supreme among two-legged beings, addressed [Mañjughoṣa again]: {.
“After taking, over many eons, Innumerable human births, Too many to be counted or conceived of, You will be the perfect buddha, Mañjudhvaja by name, In the human world. {.
“Then, having performed the acts of a buddha In the correct order as always occurs, And having liberated many beings, You will enter final nirvāṇa.” {.
Thus addressed, the divine youth of great power, With the form of a young boy, Let out a long sigh, Awestruck and overcome with compassion. {.
Shedding tears, He looked at the Buddha for a long time. Then, with his hands folded in salutation, He sat down again. {.
“On the earth down below, The emperor Ajātaśatru Will bow his head to the brahmin, The wonderful Mahākāśyapa. {.
“Now awake and back to his senses, He will bow down to [Mahākāśyapa’s] fee
And, letting out a long sigh, Will announce his aim in full. {.
“Taking his seat, the son of the late king, The great lord, Ajātaśatru by name, Will then say to Mahākāśyapa, ‘Let us go to the place of cremation
Where people worthy of help Worship the one interred under the caitya dome.’ {.
“The eminent śrāvaka, endowed with many powers, Will however remain in the same place And explain his intentions [to Ajātaśatru]
‘It is not proper for me to use my magical power
I would like to proceed To that great funerary gathering on foot.’ {.
“He will then set out to see the Teacher In his final journey
On the way, the vow holder [Mahākāśyapa] Will stop at the monastery that is midway, {.} “So that he can look up The monastery’s occupants, Particularly, a newly ordained elderly monk Who is sinful and deluded. {.
“Seeing the approaching figure, The elderly monk will come forward To meet this most illustrious brahmin, Who fasted for a long time, pure and free from illness. {.} “Having approached, He will bow to his feet And say to the illustrious guest
‘Welcome! What brings you here? {.} “ ‘Or where are you going
Are you leaving soon, or are you going to stay?
He will say that to the sage [Mahākāśyapa], Who will reply to the fool, ‘Long-lived one! Have you not heard? {.
“ ‘The Teacher of the whole world, The perfect Buddha, supreme among two-legged beings, My father, a buddha of great wisdom, Is extinguished like the flame of a lamp. {.
“ ‘The great hero has departed, And the earth has become empty
All the worlds are likewise empty, And empty too are the regions for me.’ {.
“Thereupon, the elderly monk With the twisted mind of a fool will rejoice
Laughing in ridicule, he will say, ‘Is that old geezer dead? {.} “ ‘The one with long arms And the head lofty as a parasol
Our chief guide Steeped in his ‘learned’ ignorance? {.} “ ‘Now that he is gone, I will promptly do whatever I want.
Powerful Mahākāśyapa, his hair standing on end, Being thus addressed by the old monk, {.} “Will knit his brows in angry contortion And employ the syllable hūṁ
The brahmin, habituated to asceticism, Will be furious at that moment. {.
“He will strike the ground, At that moment, with his toe, And the entire earth will sway With a loud thunder coming from the mountains. {.
“All the oceans will become agitated, All the trees, mountains, Valleys, and caves will quake, And all the nāga s and deities dwelling there will tremble. {.
“The light of the moon and the sun Will disappear on earth at that time
The winds will die down, And meteors will fall. {.
“He, One Syllable with the sound hūṁ, When pronounced like this by the śrāvakas, Is the manifestation of the family And auspiciously accomplishes all activities. {.
“Even when he is not fully mastered, This king of mantras, just by being recited, Arrests all weapons and poisons, Whether they be of animate or inanimate origin. {.
“Through merely being recited, He paralyzes all evil beings And accomplishes other specific activities Of many different types. {.
“The garrulous old monk Will fall silent and remain so thenceforth
Humbled by [the display of] magical power And chastised, at that moment, by Mahākāśyapa. {.} “He will then be led by this eminent śrāvaka To where the funeral pyre is
The monk Mahākāśyapa, free from desire, Exceedingly powerful, will travel there on foot. {.
“Having arrived, he will see The Sage ’s body laid upon the funeral pyre
And many groups of gods Worshiping it with large offerings. {.
“He will see the funeral pyre, With the body of the sage Gautama mounted upon it, Provided with the best accoutrements And adorned with all the [required] articles. {.} “When they see the wonderful, Illustrious Mahākāśyapa, All the monks, Free from faults and very dignified, {.
“And all the hosts of gods and spirits, Will exclaim, ‘Alas, alas!’ They will wail with loud cries, Outpourings of their sorrow. {.
“All the powerful gods and nāga s Will come forward And say to the illustrious one, ‘Pay respects to the supreme among two-legged beings! {.} “ ‘All the hosts of gods and all the people Have been waiting for you; The hosts of spirits, The ṛṣis, the yakṣa s, and the human kings All tried to light the funeral pyre But were unable to.’ {.
“The illustrious one, free from faults And endowed with great powers, Will circumambulate [the pyre] many times clockwise. Recollecting the Tathāgata, He will pay his respects At the edge of the pyre with great dignity. {.
“He will break open the iron casket So that the two feet emerge
Bowing his head at the feet [of the Blessed One], He will touch them again and again. {.
“Having thus repeatedly looked At the fine feet of the eminent sage, He will again lay them to rest In the iron casket. {.
“The powerful one who is free from desire Will then rise up and take his seat Among the powerful arhats, Who are also free from desire. {.
“The Magadhan king Will approach the funeral pyre At the head of a procession of chariots Drawn by elephants and horses. {.
“Then other kings, commanders of great forces, Will arrive there, all of them with their armies, To pay respects To the sage Śākyamuni, {.
“Who passed into nirvāṇa lying on the ground, In a peaceful spot at the edge of the forest, On the bank of the Hiraṇyavatī, in Makuṭabandhana, And is now inside the caitya, Absorbed into the sphere of peace And abiding in ultimate reality. {.
“The Magadhan king, Accompanied by his great army, Will see celestial displays Of many kinds, {.
“Rich in blessing, powerful, Miraculous, adorning the earth, Arising from the form of the caitya Where the Sage will be lying upon the pyre. {.
“The monk called Ānanda, Who attends upon me as my good student, The most eminent person, Always dear to me and a cause of delight, Will become disheartened at that time And, tormented by anguish, {.
“Will approach Mahākāśyapa And fall down at his feet
Distressed, he will speak In a stammering and faltering voice: {.
“ ‘My teacher has passed into nirvāṇa today; Now I am without a protector
He indicated that you alone Will be my refuge and protection. {.
“ ‘The moon-like sage prophesied That I, continuing at your side
Will remove all my afflictions And attain arhatship. {.
“ ‘The Victorious One revealed During the last watch of the night That I am selected to be always with you Until I have passed into final nirvāṇa. {.
“ ‘Desiring what is beneficial, he appointed you To carry out the work of the Buddha
The great Sage has passed into the final peace, Leaving me behind in distress.’ {.
“The sagacious Aniruddha Will comfort the pious monk
‘Do not cry in distress! Do not fall into despair! {.
“ ‘Do not go to any other place, But stay here. Mahākāśyapa himself will be our teacher When the “eye of the world” is extinguished. {.
“ ‘It was prophesied here by the Sage That he will carry on the Buddha’s work
And we will follow him, Along with you. {.
“ ‘As for his magical powers, Great distinction, energy, and great splendor, Mahākāśyapa is the second Teacher, as it were, His exact replica here on earth. {.} “ ‘For as long as Mahākāśyapa, This eminent śrāvaka of great power, Remains and holds fast, Do not fall into despair.’ {.} “Talking thus, all the sons of the Sage, Endowed with magical powers, Free from desire, and very studious, Will sit down. {.
“The pyre will be lit By the Malla kings. It will blaze on all sides And then change into ashes. {.
“Seeing this, the hosts of gods And the serpent-hooded mahoragas, In order to cool down the pyre ground, Will release a heavy shower {.} “Of sandalwood water, Followed by, the next instant, A great rain of flowers Released upon the earth. {.
“Instantly, all who came To worship the relics of the Victorious One Will all start fighting With each other. {.
“The Brahmās, the Śakras, the Yāmas, And all the hosts of god
Will be held back by the śrāvakas With great magical powers. {.
“Mahākāśyapa will distribute the relics Born from the body of the Victorious One
He will give only a small portion to everyone, So that they may be worshiped
Since they bring the final peace, The ultimate goal of the three vehicles. {.
“Then Mahākāśyapa, a yogi Free from desire and very powerful
Will reflect upon the memorable words Spoken by the unruly old monk, and say: {.
“ ‘The entirety of the great doctrine that brings happiness, With its twelve branches that comprise The Sūtra, the Vinaya, and the Abhidharma, Might vanish like smoke in the sky
When the great hero has departed, The destruction of the doctrine will follow. {.
“ ‘All the teachings spoken by the Buddha Should be collected together
Let us all go together, Free from desire and dignified
To the capital city of the Magadhans, The fine city referred to as ‘royal’; {.
“ ‘To beautiful Kuśāgrapura, With its nice, high mountains
And to Vaiśālī, a nice place Where there is a beautiful caitya.’ {.} “All the lamenting Mallas, Together with the dignified [śrāvakas], Will do many such [peregrinations] then For the sake of the teachings. {.
“At the end of the eon, When I have passed away, The kings will delight In killing one another. {.
“Monks will engage in many types of business, And beings will be rendered senseless by greed
At the end of the eon, the male and female Lay practitioners will have no faith
Dedicated to mutual slaughter, They will search each other out. {.
“Armed with ‘piercing’ weapons, They will ever inflict wounds and bring harm. Monks will lack self-control At the end of the eon, when the Sage is gone. {.
“At that time, there will be on earth Eight arhats with great magical powers, Free from desire and karmic traits. They will be tasked with protecting my doctrine. {.
“These distinguished arhats Will be those known as Rāhula and so forth. It will not be possible to see them At that time during the debased eon. {.
“However, the practitioners of mantra, when accomplished, Will be able to see them without fail
All of them, appointed here by me, Will use the mantras of magic and possess great powers. {.
“I have invested them, the glorious ones, With the authority to administer justice. Any student who disobeys their orders Will be guilty of transgression. {.
“If you hold on to the sacred Dharma— To the ultimate reality beyond the physical
And proclaim on earth This meritorious message of mine, {.
“Then you will obtain the peace of no-self And enter the final nirvāṇa without karmic traits
When the Sage and his teaching have disappeared, The following will come to pass: {.
“The monks and nuns who live on alms Will all become very greedy
Ever acting as detestable beggars, They will proliferate during the debased eon. {.
“The practice of keeping houses and wives Will become integrated into my doctrine
Lay practitioners, at that time, Will always have sex with the wives of others. {.
“The fourfold assembly will remain In name only, merely to keep appearances
They will all bring harm upon one another, Delighting in enmity. {.
“The entire earth will be taken over By the tīrthikas and [saṃsāric] gods
People, at that time, Will adore the brahmin caste. {.
“Deluded and following wrong conduct, They will delight in harming living beings
This has been prophesied for this lowest eon, When I enter into final nirvāṇa. {.
“Many men and women will Continuously indulge in adultery
They will all delight in nonvirtue And shun virtuous values. {.
“After I enter the final peace on earth, Many beings will be present, Worshiping my body, Such as the hosts of gods of great vitality and splendor, {.
“Men of distinction, Hosts of yakṣa s and spirits, Asuras, gandharvas, Kinnaras endowed with great powers, {.} “Garuḍas, nāga s, Rākṣasas, ṛṣis, Siddha s, yogins, Planets with great vitality, {.
“Beings of various types That take birth based on their different destinies And are caught in the chain of saṃsāric rebirths, And also the wise ones who have broken this chain. {.
“They will make offerings to my body, From which the pangs of fever have departed, On the bank of the Hiraṇyavatī, In the Yamakasāla Grove, {.
“In the Makuṭabandhana shrine, In the country of the Mallas
When I pass into final nirvāṇa there, I will attain the peace that is free from fear. {.
“My relics will be exhumed, With some being stolen By gods, asuras, And all types of spirits
They will be divided into separate portions And then distributed. {.
“At that time, the Magadhan king Ajātaśatru, Together with his great army, Will make a request to all the śrāvakas Endowed with great magical powers: {.
“ ‘Please, great beings, Uplift me also, Crestfallen and suffering, Even though I am a patricide without merit.’ {.
“The most eminent, wise śrāvaka, The dear son of the Buddha Called Mahākāśyapa, Who brings benefit to beings, {.
“Seeing this intelligent man called Ajātaśatru And noticing his distress, Will give him then his due attention And bless him with his magical power. {.
“He will pick up a portion of relics Produced from the body of the Victorious One. The remaining relics will be taken by the others, Including very powerful snake-like beings. {.
“Each trying to be quicker than the other, They will push and shove in great agitation
They will then carry the relics through space To their own abodes and install them there. {.
“The monk Mahākāśyapa, The most eminent śrāvaka, Will, at that time, reflect on the Sage: {.
“ ‘Ah, woe to humankind! He is absent from this earthly round With its buddhas, pratyeka­buddhas, And śrāvakas with great miraculous powers. {.
“ ‘The light has gone out for beings Who wander in the prison of saṃsāra
They will now experience various types Of acute suffering for a long time. {.
“ ‘If, however, they worship the relics Of the savior, the lord of the world, They will experience the pleasures Of the god realms in abundance. {.
“ ‘They will obtain kingdoms, prosperity, And mantric accomplishments, so difficult to attain
They will attain the various things That reflect the lifestyles of favorable rebirths, {.
“ ‘Including the desired boon of reaching the peak of existence That is adorned with the threefold liberation
By worshiping the relics They will attain the supreme accomplishment.’ {.
“Reflecting like this, The world-renowned brahmin, The śrāvaka and the distinguished sage By the name Kāśyapa, {.} “Will pick up some relics And distribute them, at that time, on earth
With special care, he will give a relic-pill To the king of the Magadhans called Ajātaśatru, {.
“And also to all the eight kings. This śrāvaka, a great being Of great splendor, Will give everything completely to all of them. {.
“With his mind overcome with compassion, He will grieve for sentient beings Who, lacking the understanding of impermanence, Continue to undergo the cycle of rebirth: {.} “ ‘Beings will weep for a long time, Lasting many eons
When the sacred Dharma of the Teacher, the Lion of the Śākyas, Has disappeared in the world
“Then the valiant Mahākāśyapa will rise and, With his mind imbued with power
Will address Ajātaśatru, The king of men: {.
“ ‘To honor the Teacher’s instructions, Let us go to the city of Rājagṛha.
Having carefully placed the relics In one hundred jars, {.
“They will then travel eastward, Hastily proceeding toward Rājagṛha
After they arrive in the Bamboo Grove, They will deposit there the relics of the Victorious One. {.
“After building a marvelous stūpa Of the savior, the lord of the world
The great king will offer to this stūpa Adornments of many kinds: {.
“Garlands, fabrics, parasols, Scented powders, perfume, incense, Silks, music, riches, banners, Various bells, garlands, unguents, And lamps, chaplets, and wreaths, Of many different kinds. {.
“Having made these offerings, The great king, his mind steeped in reverence, Will bow with his head to the stūpa And at that time make the following aspiration: {.
“ ‘May I, by the abundant merit gained Through worshiping the most eminent being in the world, Attain the inconceivable [state whereby I will] Worship many tathāgatas.’ {.
“The king will then rise And speak to Mahākāśyapa, Wiping teardrops off his face
With his eyes dimmed by tears And his heart brimming with compassion, He will recall his father: {.
“ ‘My noble friend of great wisdom, Please be my confessor
The evil that I have committed Will cause me to fall into the Avīci hell. {.
“ ‘Having killed my father, A Dharma king established On the path taught by the Teacher, I am unable to distract myself
My good and noble friend, Be so kind as to teach me the meaning of the Dharma!’ {.
“Thus addressed, the great being, The foremost śrāvaka of the Victorious One, The sagacious one called Mahākāśyapa Will say the following: {.
“ ‘Do not fear, great king
You have accumulated a lot of merit
In your former births You have practiced virtue hundreds of times. {.
“ ‘Once, when there was no Buddha in the world, There lived a pratyeka­buddha
At that time, in the city of Vārāṇasī, A son was born to a prominent merchant
In his ignorance and childish frivolity, He went out onto the road. {.
“ ‘He came upon The blessed pratyeka­buddha, Who, out of desire to benefit the world, Was doing his alms rounds. {.
“ ‘Upon seeing the pratyeka­buddha The boy’s mind was filled with faith
He fell at his feet and asked, “What are you about to do, monk?” {.
“ ‘The blessed, rhinoceros-like lord Remained silent And stood there As the boy held him by the robe, [saying,] {.
“ ‘ “Come! Come to that fine house Adorned with a banner
This is our dwelling
You will wash your feet and have some food
We shall promptly eat as much as we like, And then play to our hearts’ content.” {.
“ ‘The monk, free from faults, His three stains definitively destroyed, And committed to the kind treatment of others, Followed the boy
Having arrived at the door, The glorious monk waited. {.
“ ‘The boy entered And called out, “Mother
Please give some food for me, And also alms of various kinds. {.
“ ‘ “My friend has arrived here at long last, Who will play with me in the sand
At last, you will be pleased with him; He stands waiting at the door.” {.
“ ‘Hastily, she came out the door, And immediately saw The distinguished person, Peaceful, and of great majesty. {.
“ ‘She then quickly went in, Took a fine vessel, Cleaned it with her hands, And prepared some flowers and incense. {.
“ ‘She took some pure rice pudding Flavored with many spices, And also different other foodstuffs, And arranged them on a silver plate. {.
“ ‘She then promptly returned [to the door] And placed [the articles] in the monk’s bowl
Then she, fond of the Dharma like her son, Fell down at the monk’s feet. {.
“ ‘The monk accepted the alms And flew up into the sky, Where he could be seen As a row of lights. {.
“ ‘The rhinoceros-like pratyeka­buddhas Do not teach the Dharma verbally
These great beings present it to others Through their magical powers. {.
“ ‘They are exceedingly compassionate Toward beings and free from selfishness
They reveal their supernatural power To beings with respect to future lives. {.
“ ‘By the ripening of this karma, The boy along with the mother Attained the state of a celestial being For five hundred births. {.
“ ‘He became a king of gods, And she his mother
Then he became a human -born king, Ruling over an empire of men. {.
“ ‘Having enjoyed pleasures for a long time, He was born, in this world, as the son of Bimbisāra, The same one who had grabbed the blessed [monk] By the robe and pulled him. {.
“ ‘You, however, spoke improper words When addressing a monk, Saying, at that time, “Be my playmate in the sand.” {.
“ ‘Based on the past karma of those words, Undesirable and rude, You experienced, for a long time, An intense and acute suffering, Falling, against your wishes, into the terrible hell Where the pain is difficult to bear. {.
“ ‘Ensnared thus in the trammels of karma, Beings follow painful destinies
One creates karma laughing, But experiences it crying. {.
“ ‘Because of your former childish attitude Toward a savior, a pratyeka­buddha
You spoke improper words, Thus creating the corresponding karma. {.
“ ‘Having left the hell realm, You became human and arrived here, But your consciousness, O king, Was still in a hell born of karmic ripening. {.
“ ‘Because of this and your violent anger, You were predisposed to kill your father
Similarly, because of a pre-existing karmic trait Created by serving a pratyeka­buddha, You met the Buddha in person And you worshiped him. {.
“ ‘By the same cause of [serving a pratyeka­buddha], You have obtained a kingdom in this [world].
Thus will the two of them converse In the Bamboo Grove on earth. {.
“The first one, my foremost disciple, And the second one, the king, Will bow to the stūpa hundreds of times And then go each to his own home. {.
“My foremost disciple, Who shelters under the pipal tree, Will call a meeting of the sages, All of them free from desire and very dignified. {.
“The entire doctrine with its twelve branches, Along with the Vinaya, will be recited there
The Dharma that I have taught, And that which was formerly taught by other victors. {.
“The doctrine will be presented By the foremost disciple as threefold, With its scriptures divided into Sūtra, Vinaya, and Abhidharma. {.
“The wise [Mahākāśyapa] will release beings From the three fetters, dry up their three faults, Free them from the three sufferings, And establish them in the three vehicles. {.
“The sagacious one will thus Further the cause of the buddhas’ teachings
As for the king of the Magadhans, The great monarch Ajātaśatru, {.} “He will extend his rule over the entirety of Magadha and Aṅga, After that over Vārāṇasī, And then over Vaiśālī to the north
He will become a very powerful king {.} “Who will advance the cause of the teachings, Of this there is no doubt
He is prophesied to attain the ultimate peace, After being instructed by you, divine youth. {.
“His son, the king known By the initial U, Will also become, before long, Actively engaged in promoting the teachings. {.
“He will have these teachings Committed to writing in their entirety
After worshiping [the volumes] with many offerings, He will distribute them throughout the quarters. {.
“Later he will not suffer a low rebirth
But will be reborn among gods
After twenty or thirty years Spent among the pitṛs. {.
“His earthly existence Will end at midnight, When he will succumb to a disease That runs in his family. {.
“For twenty-six days He will suffer the pain of this terrible disease
Affected by all manner of illnesses, He will be incapacitated in different ways. {.
“He will thus pass away And swiftly be reborn among the gods
With effort and care, in due course, He will certainly attain realization. {.
“These and many other kings, Those in the past and the future, Having done various services For the pratyeka­buddhas and the victorious saviors, {.
“Obtain the wished-for extraordinary fortunes, Whether divine or human, And, in due course, attain peace— The blessed state free from decay. {.
“Kings can be of three categories, Higher, middling, or inferior. The kings said [to have ruled] in the first eon Are those of the Nahuṣa and Pārthiva lines. {.
“Some are destined to become buddhas, While others pursue the pratyeka­buddha path. Some are destined to become śrāvakas. All of them are on course toward liberation. {.} “As for their lifespans, They are divided into [three] categories
The superior ones have long lifespans, The middling have middling ones, {.
“But in the final eon, The wretched and debased age of strife, The kings will have short lifespans And be fond of discord. {.
“They will be given to mutual enmity And inflicting harm on one another
They will be of inferior birth And will provoke armed conflicts. {.} “At that time, they will be eager to use weapons And will take pleasure in [seducing] others’ wives
There is no doubt that such kings will come, Reviled by the world. {.
“They will be wicked, vulgar, and selfish, And will engage in evil acts
This will come to pass Between the dvāparayuga and kaliyuga. {.
Listen, divine youth! {.} “Learn about the features and marks Associated with their caste. Prasenajit is the king of Kośala; Bimbisāra is another king. {.} “Udayana, the son of Śatānīka, Is a distinguished kṣatriya. There are also Subāhu, Sudhana, Mahendra , and Candrasama. {.} “Siṃha of the Licchavi clan Was born in Vaiśālī. In Ujjain, there are Udayana, Vidyota, Pradyota, and Mahāsena. {.} “In Ujjain there is Caṇḍa
In the city of Kapilavastu There is the king Śuddhodana And the powerful Vairāṭa. {.
“These kings are said to be kṣatriyas And worshipers of the Teacher
They have seen the Buddha, the supreme person, directly, In his [present existence] as the Lion of the Śākyas. {.
“Having heard the Dharma, They will obtain lasting good fortune, And if they desire liberation, They will definitely attain the peace of nirvāṇa. {.
“The kings just listed, known to the world, Belong to the earthly realm
Regarding their caste, they are said to be kṣatriyas, And as for their identification, they are known by their name. {.
“One of them will worship your teachings, Which I have given on earth
He was predicted by you, Divine youth beautiful as a child, As the one called Ajātaśatru, Who will dedicate himself to the goal of awakening. {.
“One hundred years after My parinirvāṇa on earth, When there is no light or joy And the darkness of ignorance descends, When the earth is empty Without the Victorious One, {.
“At that terrible time, In the city called Kusumapura, There will be a king who rules that land, Known by the name Aśoka. He will be severe in his actions, Tempestuous, and pitiless. {.
“He will, however, meet a virtuous friend Who is free from desire and dignified, A monk endowed with discipline Whose mind is free from the fever [of afflictions]. {.} “Because of the karmic predisposition from the past Formed through a gift of dust to the dignified [ Sage ], This king will be destined To own vast land and great wealth
He will also understand what is right and what is wrong, And he will become gentle and compassionate. {.
“Revealing the underlying cause, The monk, free from desire and very dignified, Will say
‘You, O king, in a former life, Acting innocently with childlike flightiness, {.} “ ‘Presented at that time, with folded hands, Some dust to the victorious Lion of the Śākyas, Placing it in his bowl as food
Because of this, you attained a divine state, {.
“ ‘And then, having departed from the celestial realm, You took birth here, in the world of your ancestors
Enjoy the dominion, O king, Over Jambūdvīpa with its pleasant groves!’ {.
“The great king will practice The mantra of the great yakṣa Jambhala
After he becomes accomplished, He will obtain a chariot drawn by spirits. {.
“He will be attended upon by the yakṣa s, Who anticipate his orders
The nāga s will attend upon him too, Duly awaiting his orders. {.
“Devoted to the Dharma, Aśoka will attain great majesty, And he will exercise the powers of a sovereign, Traveling wherever he pleases Without ever being obstructed. {.
“He will take, at that time, from the city of Rājagṛha, From the grove called the Bamboo Grove, The finest relics of the victorious ones on earth, Which had been placed there in earlier times. {.
“With his mind steeped in virtue, He will take the relics from their container And then worship the stūpa, Just as was done in the past. {.
“He will take out the jar containing the relics and, Having divided them into one hundred parts, That wise one will immediately command The yakṣa s as follows: {.
“ ‘Gentlemen, please adorn The entirety of Jambūdvīpa with stūpas
You must make the earth Into a receptacle of relics.’ {.
“Having received their orders, The yakṣa s, carefully at midnight, Using for this task nonhuman labor, Will erect stone pillars throughout the land. {.
“They will erect, at that time, Many thousands of pillars Serving as signposts for living beings For their worship of the caityas. {.
“Having thus constructed various stūpas Dedicated to the lord protectors of the world, The yakṣa s will instantly return To the side of the king, [Aśoka]. {.
“Bowing their heads to him, The guhyakas will say
‘We have done everything exactly as instructed
Will you not have a look, O lord?’ {.
“The king will then quickly Mount his chariot
Taking with him various things to offer And adornments of many kinds. {.
“He will thus quickly fill The spirit-drawn chariot With gold, silver, copper, And various adornments for the stūpas. {.
“Within a moment, the king Will worship the victorious ones With manifold articles At the locations where their reliquaries will be. {.
“At that time, when all the land has been adorned With the relics of the victorious ones, The king, the righteous and noble Aśoka, Will make the following aspiration
‘By the power of this merit May I become a supreme buddha.’ {.
“Remembering this, The noble, righteous king Aśok
Will become a god after he dies, Steadily progressing toward awakening. {.
“On earth, he will worship The supreme relics for eighty-seven years
He will live for one hundred and fifty years, During which he will rid his kingdom of troubles. {.
“Because of the maturing of his past karma, He will develop a physical illness
Afflicted by it, he will suffer pain, But when he dies, he will go to heaven. {.
“He will obtain and enjoy A great fortune of the gods
And in due course, being intelligent, Will attain the realization that is so hard to find. {.
“The mantras effective at that time Will be those of the Vajra and Lotus families
Those of Jambhala and other yakṣa s Who follow the same teachings, And also those of the yakṣiṇīs, Such as the powerful Hārītī and so forth. {.
“The cakravartin mantras that emanate From Cakravartin will be effective too
The powerful vidyārāja mantras, Starting from the uṣṇīṣa s and including All the other mantras Taught by the victors. {.
“The sādhanas to be performed at that auspicious time Are those of the supreme type
They cannot be accomplished by inferior practitioners, But only by the supreme ones who pursue the highest destiny
Such as Dilīpa, Nahuṣa, Māndhātṛ, and Sagara. {.
“They accomplished the cakravartin mantras Taught by the victorious ones
Noble Nahuṣa accomplished The mantra of Tejorāśi. {.
“King Sagara accomplished The mantra of Sitātapatra
King Dilīpa accomplished The One Syllable mantra. {.
“Māndhātṛ accomplished, in this world, The mantra of Unnatoṣṇīṣa
The supreme king Dhundhumāra Accomplished the mantra of Jayoṣṇīṣa. {.
“King Kandarpa is said to have accomplished The mantra of Vijayoṣṇīṣa
His son Prajāpati, too, Accomplished the Locanā mantra on earth. {.
“Prajāpati’s son Nābhi Accomplished the mantra of Ūrṇa
Ṛṣabha, a son of Nābhi, Was successful in his endeavors and strict in his observances. {.
“He accomplished the mantra of the yakṣa Māṇicara In the Himalayas
Bharata, a son of Ṛṣabha, Also recited the mantras at that time, And in due course accomplished The Great Hero mantra on earth. {.
“These and many other kings, Renowned throughout the world, After accomplishing their mantras, Ruled their kingdoms and then ascended to heaven. {.
“The powerful vidyārāja s That were taught by the victorious lords Could all be accomplished During the auspicious time of the eon When the lifespan was eighty thousand years, By those who knew the value of the mantra method. {.
“These and many other kings, Renowned throughout the world, Ruled their kingdoms For eighty thousand or one hundred thousand year
And then ascended to heaven, Steadily progressing toward awakening. {.
“Then, during the middle period, The mantras that brought success Were those belonging to the family of the lotus holder; They possessed great divine and magical powers And were employed by the prominent ministers And the kings who ruled over all the land. {.
“Thus, the king Brahmadatta, In the great city of Vārāṇasī, Accomplished [the mantra of] the lotus holder Known in the world as Lokeśa. {.
“He was valiant, magnanimous, And distinguished by his great compassion
He instructed beings in the Dharma, Assuming the form of his mantra deity. {.
“King Brahmadatta experienced happiness While a human being
Then he, the master of the mantra, Ascended to heaven in his physical body. {.
“His son, who was intelligent, Virtuous in his actions, and strict in his observances, Accomplished for his part the mantra Of the great hero known as Hayagrīva. {.
“With the power of this mantra He defeated Śakra during that time
His son, named Śveta, was a king Who gave away everything he had. {.
“His mantra deity who grants boons Was the one called Mahāśvetā
Having accomplished her mantra, Śveta lived three hundred years. {.
“By the power of this mantra He went to the realm of Sukhāvatī
He is destined to attain awakening, Just like the others I have prophesied. {.
“The mantras that would have been accomplished During the middle period are the middling mantras
The mantras that will be effective During the wretched and debased eon
When I have passed into the final nirvāṇa, Are the mantras of the Vajra and Lotus families. {.
“The mantras that you, divine youth, Have formerly taught on earth Will also be effective and will constitute The cause of good fortune. {.
“So too is the case with other mantras Used for different worldly purposes, Such as the mantras of kaśmalas and other deformed beings Who course in mid-regions and in the sky
{.} “Or the mantras of the yakṣiṇīs who roam the earth And of the various piśācīs
And likewise the mantras of the garuḍas and the kinnaras And those taught to be of the rākṣasas and the pretas. {.
“So, too, the powerful mantras of the nāginīs, Who protect against the piśācas and uragas, Will be effective During the wretched, debased eon. {.
“The mantras [of deities] with the forms Of kumāras or kumārīs Will also be effective At that terrible time. {.
“The mantras are thus of three kinds, And so are the sādhanas
The accomplishment can also be of three types, Corresponding to the threefold division of time periods
I present what would be an elaborate explanation In a condensed manner. {.
“After the first king Aśoka There will come a king Known as Viśoka, A follower of Dharma in the world. {.
“He will accomplish the mantra Of the goddess Pāṇḍaravāsinī
With this accomplishment, Viśoka will ascend to the celestial realm. {.
“This great king, having enjoyed happiness In the celestial abode for a long time, Will again resume his life as a human, Disciplined in the Dharma and wise. {.
“He, the splendorous one, will enjoy his kingship Blessed with many boons
He will worship the supreme relics For seventy-six years
Then, overcome with fever, His body will give out and he will go to heaven. {.
“Directly after him, there will be A king known as Śūrasena
A celebrated practitioner of the Dharma Always applying himself to the teachings. {.
“For his part, he will accomplish the mantra Of the goddess Stūpamahāśriyā
He will commission great works In the Teacher’s honor, And the entire land, as far as the ocean shore, Will be adorned with stūpas. {.
“Then, having developed a physical illness Due to the ripening of his past karma
He will deteriorate and pass away Within one fortnight. {.
“Having ruled the realm For seventeen human years, When he dies he will enter the celestial realm, Steadily progressing toward awakening. {.
“Directly after him there will be Another king, Nanda by name
He, the glorious, will reside in the Flower City With his powerful army. {.
“For his part, he will accomplish The mantra of the piśāca named Pīlu
Through the power of this mantra He will enjoy great comforts. {.
“He will become known in this world As the ‘chief rogue,’ Who first got rich as a minister And then went on to become a king. {.
“At that time, there will live on earth
In the capital city of Magadha, Greedy brahmin logicians Proud of their magical abilities. They will be full of vain pride and arrogance, Of this there is no doubt. {.
“The king, surrounded by them, Will bestow upon them great wealth
Although disciplined in and devoted to the Dharma, The king will give his wealth to them
“Solely because of his habitual practice And the constancy of his generosity
This wise [king] will construct monasteries Over a period of sixty-eight years. {.
“There will be, at that time, In the city named after flowers, A great chief minister Who is a good and compassionate brahmin. {.
“He will become the embodiment of the Dharma For that outstanding king
He will accomplish on earth The mantra of the yakṣiṇī Vīramatī. {.
“He also will commission the finest reliquary Of the victorious ones on earth
Due to the power of the yakṣiṇī, He will become exceedingly wise. {.
“Impelled by his earlier habits And because of his karmic traits
This wise minister will attain, in due course, The awakening that is so difficult to obtain. {.
“At that time, some brahmin youths will die Due to their indulgence in vice
Also at that time he, known by the name of Vararuci, Will succumb to excessive sexual passion. {.
“The glorious king Nanda, Because of the karma of his earlier transgressions, Will displease his ministers In the city called Pāṭaliputra. {.
“Although his ministers will be disaffected, He will remain true to his promises and powerful
However, due to the karma of former transgressions, He will develop a severe illness. {.
“Suffering from high fever, He will die at midnight
The life of this king Will be sixty-six years long
He will be destined to become a śrāvaka And attain awakening. {.
“Another friend of [King Nanda] Will be a young brahmin named Pāṇini, Prophesied by me To become a śrāvaka. {.
“He will accomplish The mantra of the noble Lokīśa
Desiring wisdom, this brahmin Will accomplish the mantra of the krodha Hālāhala. {.
“Next in succession after [King Nanda] Will be the one known as Candragupta
He will accomplish the mantra of the yakṣa Jalendra And will rid his kingdom of troubles. {.
“This great king will enjoy great comforts And will be true to his promises and dedicated to the Dharma
Having, however, met a nonvirtuous friend He will kill many beings
Because of the ripening of this karma, He will become debilitated by poisonous skin eruptions. {.
“Lamenting, at midnight he will appoint As his successor on earth his son, Bindusāra by name, still a child, Along with a wicked minister. {.
“After Candragupta’s time on earth is over, He will pass away And go to the realm of the pretas, Following a nonhuman destiny
But then, because of his mantra practice, He will leave that realm and go to heaven. {.
“Because of the mantra, His mind will be steeped in virtue, And the king will attain in due course The realization of a pratyeka­buddha. {.
“In his former life as Siṃhadatta, King Bindusāra Built a caitya as a child, With his mind still undeveloped. {.
“Through the power of this karma, The virtuous [Siṃhadatta] went to heaven And enjoyed pleasures among the gods For five hundred thousand lives. {.
“Having departed the celestial realm, He will be become an earthly king Born in the royal family Of the sagacious Candragupta. {.
“A mere child, the king Will experience great pleasures, And when grown up, he will turn bold, Resolute, and smooth spoken
He will keep the kingdom Under his control for seventy years. {.
“This king will accomplish The mantra of Keśinī
At that time, divine youth, Your mantras will bring success. {.
“The mantras that you taught Will be accomplished at that time
The inner essence of every being is that of the divine youth, Who exercises his power over the worlds. {.
“He will manifest for beings In the form of the mantra without a doubt
The mantras that you have taught Out of the desire to help beings Will be recited on earth at that time And will always bring accomplishment. {.
“The sagacious King Bindusāra Will have a minister, Cāṇakya by name, a brahmin youth Who will accomplish the mantra of a krodha
This evil-minded man will accomplish The mantra of the krodha Yamāntaka. {.
“Overcome by anger, He will kill living beings And will commit terrible evil Over the period of the three reigns. {.
“This corrupt brahmin Will live for a long time and, Through the power of the mantra, Will carnally enjoy an asurī. {.
“Taking on the body of an asura, He will live for a long time
When his body gives out, He will fall into the hell realm. {.
“There, the evil-minded [Cāṇakya] Will experience the sufferings of hell
His bad karma will bring upon him The sufferings of different hells. {.
“Having passed there one eon, he will be aroused From that state by the mantra of the Krodha
After passing away from hell, He will be reborn as an animal. {.
“Born as a nāga, He will have the frightening form Of a nāga king, very wrathful, With a big hood, and proud of his venom. {.
“He will commit terrible acts, And when he dies, with his bad karma He will be reborn in the realm of Yama. {.} “Having become the king Yama, The powerful king of the pretas
He will endure thousands of sufferings Again and again. {.
“In due course, he will be reborn on earth As a dull-witted brahmin youth
Having obtained a human birth, He will have a frightening form
Destitute and short-tempered, He will have few friends. {.
“The pratyeka­buddhas, who have no desires in this world And live alone like rhinoceroses, Wander the earth filled with compassion For those who are forsaken and miserable
They take up the life of mendicancy Out of the desire to help sentient beings. {.
“Seeing the bad [state of Cāṇakya’s] mind, And being able to read the thoughts of others, They will approach him, Solely out of compassion. {.
“Cāṇakya, having obtained Some inferior gruel in order to eat it, Will be swayed by the power of the Krodha’s mantra And create, at that time, a good cause. {.
“He will offer the gruel to them as alms With a singularly magnanimous mind and say, ‘Excuse me, all of you renunciants
Eat this food, as much as you like.
Right then, out of their sympathy for him, The pratyeka­buddhas will display their miraculous power. {.
“Stricken with wonder, His mind uplifted by their power
He will prostrate himself headlong To the rhinoceros-like pratyeka­buddhas. And they all, free from faults, Will fly into the sky as they please. {.
“Cāṇakya will then, with a good intention, Make an aspiration for the realization of a pratyeka­buddha: ‘May I become the way These magnificent beings are, Steeped in tranquility and endowed with magical powers
May I be free from suffering and unhappy rebirths.’ {.
“When he dies after exhausting his remaining karma, He will, inevitably, be reborn in heaven
In due course he will fully assimilate the Dharma And attain the realization of a pratyeka­buddha
From this [one should draw the conclusion] That mantras should not be used in the sādhanas of assault. {.
“Such violent practices are forbidden By the buddhas and the bodhisattvas
The exceedingly compassionate buddhas And the majestic bodhisattvas Taught the implications of the power of mantras For all the practitioners of rites. {.
“The mantras taught by the tathāgatas Are wish-fulfilling gems
However, beings who are by nature immature, Confused, and under the sway of anger and greed Employ these mantras against each other In the violent rites of assault. {.
“Such rites are forbidden by the buddhas And the sagacious bodhisattvas, Since the mantras are meant to increase Beings’ well-being in every possible way. {.
“The mantras raise kingdoms, Provide protection, and bring wealth. They can summon beings Of different types of birth
The mantras should never be mastered In order to destroy life. {.
“At that time my monks Will be very learned
One by the name of Mātṛceṭa Will compose a hymn of praise for me That will be recited, whenever appropriate, By those who exemplify good qualities. {.
“Having developed complete faith, He will delight in the teachings of the buddhas
A mantra adept, himself inconspicuous, He will only proclaim praises of Mañjughoṣa
He will be a learned proponent of the Dharma, Endowed with good qualities and discipline. {.
“When he was an animal in a past life, He recited the same hymn of prais
In the fine city called ‘the King’s,’ In the park called ‘the Grove,’ Where I used to spend my time as I pleased, Together with my disciples. {.
“Living there as a crow, He developed faith in me
He died with thoughts of trust in me And was reborn in heaven. {.
“When his life as a god ends, He will be reborn among humans
Living among them, he will renounce the world For the sake of my doctrine. {.
“Having thus become a renunciant, That great being will praise me, Becoming known, at that time, As Mātṛceṭa who keeps his observances. {.
“For the benefit of all beings, He will compose, as necessary, Religious hymns in fine language With examples and allegories. {.
“Out of his kindness for sentient beings, He will dedicate himself to writing inspiring hymns
He will live during the final eon That is reviled by the world
When his body gives out, He will go to heaven due to his ripened karma. {.
“Having experienced various delights, The wise Mātṛceṭa will, in due course, Attain the omniscient awakening— The inconceivable absolute truth. {.
“When four hundred years Have passed after my parinirvāṇa, A monk by the name of Nāgārjuna Will delight in this beneficial teaching
He will attain the Joyful stage, And will live six hundred years. {.
“This great person will accomplish The vidyā called Māyūrī
He will know the meaning of various treatises down to every word And will understand that in reality there is no independent existence. {.
“When he leaves his body, He will be reborn in Sukhāvatī And in due course Will certainly attain buddhahood. {.
“Then there will be a monk by the name of Asaṅga Who will understand the true meaning of the treatises
He will clearly discern many times over The direct and indirect meaning of the sūtras. {.
“He will educate people, Dedicated to the task and well disciplined
He will accomplish The vidyā called Śāladūtī. {.
“With his superior intellect Developed by the power of the vidyā mantra, He will distill the true meaning from the sūtras, Ensuring a long survival of the teachings
He will live one hundred and fifty years, And when he leaves his body he will be reborn in heaven. {.
“During his lengthy peregrination through saṃsāra, He will experience happiness for a long time
And in due course this great being Will attain awakening. {.
“There will thus be during that period Many different types of monks who follow my teachings, Including those who possess insight And are disciplined in the Dharma. {.
“There will also come, in the final period, A very learned person called Nanda. Conversant with the tantras And wholly dedicated to the quest of mantras
He will accomplish the pot of fortune That is activated with the mantra of the yakṣa. {.
“Accomplished in austerities, He will draw forth from the pot An important Mahāyāna sūtra That I taught in the past. {.
“Reading the volume continually As its nature is that of the mantra, He will not guard the pot That was obtained through the yakṣa. {.} “Due to his carelessness and lack of attention, The pot will be stolen by Mūrdhaṭaka
The monk [Nanda] who has mastered the mantra Will start reciting it. {.
“He will search for the pot, But will not find it anywhere
Then, his flesh turning red from anger, He will declare in a resounding voice, {.
“ ‘From Brahmā down to the lowest being, Śakra and the others, including Maheśvara, [Everybody] can be summoned by the mantra. If not, I am neither a follower nor a master of mantra. {.
“ ‘The mantras taught by the Buddha’s heirs And by the supreme victors Are for restraining Those difficult to tame
If I cannot thus bring thieves into my presence, It means that none of them are here on earth.’ {.
“The moment he merely recollects them, They will arrive, ready to act
With the single syllable hūṁ, He will summon to earth Brahmā and the others. {.
“He will thus summon all the gods, Brahmā and the others, including Śakra
Uttering the shouts of hā! hā! They will make frightening noise, asking
‘What should I do? Why have you brought me here? I have done nothing wrong!’ {.
“Promptly and hastily, The wise and fearless monk Will address the gods
‘Bring the pot, wherever it is, back here!’ {.
“Passing on the monk’s words, The gods will all say to one another
‘Quickly name the fellow Who stole the pot!
They will thus look for the pot But will not find it anywhere. {.
“The lord of the gods himself will look Into the matter and ask, ‘Who stole the pot?
He will see the glorious bodhisattva of great splendor, The holder of the vajra, {.
“And his terrible son, Very wrathful and terrifying, Who roams the entire world, Manifesting in the form of a vighna. {.
“Knowing that it was he who stole the pot, The lord of gods will say
‘There is a vighna in the Vajra family
He playfully sports on earth. {.
“ ‘He makes offerings to me, And that’s why he stole the pot.
After saying this, the lord of gods Will return to his celestial abode. {.
“Nanda will then dismiss all the gods, Using their respective mantras
Immediately, in a mere instant, They will be transported [back to their places]. {.
“He will summon the vighna, Who is powerless and has the pot
He will then employ him To take the pot to the pretas. {.
“The vighna, guided [there and back], Will say the following
‘As I have delivered the pot to the preta realm, I am free from any offense.’ {.
“The great practitioner of mantra Will scold the vighna angrily
‘Go, go, great vighna, And don’t do this again!’ {.
“Immediately He will summon the pretas, Whose mouths are as small as the eye of a needle And who are disturbed by hunger and distressed. {.
“These very dreadful creatures Will let out wretched cries, Wailing in piteous voices, ‘Protect us, O great being! {.
“ ‘Here is your pot. Having been summoned, we will do whatever you want.
The mantra adept, filled with great compassion, Will start trembling. {.
“His mind tender with compassion, He will say the following
‘Tell me without delay About your sufferings in the world.’ {.
“Dejected in their minds, they will say
‘For a long time, in the realm of the pretas, We have been afflicted with hunger And thirst, O great being!’ {.
“The monk, filled with compassion, Will then present the pot to them
Uplifted in their minds, They will hastily return to their abodes
Food and drink will now appear in the pot Whenever they merely think of it. {.
“The monk Nanda will dwell On earth in a sandalwood grove
He will live during the debased period For three hundred years
Noble-minded and dedicated to the pursuit of awakening, He will soon attain the realization so difficult to attain. {.
“There will certainly come, at that time During the debased eon, An important Gomin king Who will [try to] eradicate my teachings. {.
“Starting from the east, And up to the gateway into Kaśmīra, This fool will destroy Monasteries and reliquaries. {.
“In his stupidity, he will kill Monks who are disciplined
Until, having retreated north, The fool will meet his death. {.
“He will be buried in a landslide Caused by an angry nonhuman being, Together with his subjects, animals, and kinsmen
This fool will be reborn in the nether world. {.
“Following a downward course, He will fall from one hell to the next, Experiencing ever greater suffering, Intense and terrifying. {.
“That prominent Gomin [king], Will be rescued after one great eon From the hell called Avīci, Where evildoers go. {.
“Meeting wrong friends, Beings commit terrible evil
Therefore, with all care, You should put all your trust In the teachings of the Tathāgata
You will then enjoy good fortune. {.
“All of you should always follow The eightfold path, Which invariably leads to buddhahood, The city without aging or sorrow. {.
“Next after him will come The king known as Buddhapakṣa
He will enjoy great support, be truly renounced, And delight in the teachings of the buddhas
He will come, there is no doubt, During the debased eon. {.
“The king will be loved by all And devoted to the teachings of the Teacher
He will build monasteries, lay gardens, and caityas And commission superb images of the Teacher. {.
“He will also construct many Ponds, tanks, and reservoirs
Having done all this, this great king Will go to heaven at a ripe age. {.
“While on earth, he will accomplish The mantra of Abjaketu of great efficacy, And he will ask this bodhisattva, the great being, To protect the earth. {.
“By the power of Abjaketu’s mantra, Buddhapakṣa will live three hundred years
With his accumulation of good karma, He will swiftly attain awakening. {.
“His son will likewise be a king, With a great powerful army
He will be called Gambhīrapakṣa Throughout the entire earth. {.
“This king, at that time, Will be very dedicated to his work
He will build numerous monasteries, Lodgings, reliquaries, ponds, and wells
This king of great splendor Will undoubtedly do such things. {.
“He will accomplish the mantra Of the sagacious Mañjughoṣa— The phrase known as the six syllables, Pregnant in meaning and conducive to well-being. {.
“By the power of this mantra He will experience great comforts
In due course he will obtain intelligence And swiftly travel the path to awakening
He will do various works Related to the Tathāgata’s teachings. {.
“At that time, In the north, In the country called Nepāla Nestled at the foothills of the snowy mountains, There will be King Mānavadeva, Born to the Licchavi clan. {.
“He too, having accomplished his mantric quest, Will come to enjoy great comforts
This king will accomplish The vidyā called Bhogavatī
During his reign of eighty years, The kingdom will be free from thieves. {.
“When his life ends, The king will go to heaven. The mantras especially effective at that time Will be the peaceful mantras for pacifying and nourishing. {.
“The world-renowned Tārā, The goddess Pāṇḍaravāsinī, And Mahāśvetā will strive to benefit others, Never growing weary in their minds. {.
“These and many other kings Will come at that time, it is said
They will be many, of many types, Described according to their varying natures. {.
“The kings of the mlecchas in the snowy land Will also worship the Teacher
They are Vṛṣa, Suvṛṣa, Bhūbhāsa, Subhūbhāsa, Bhākrama, Padakrama, And the one known as Kamala. {.
“There will also be the western kings: Bhāgupta, Vatsaka, Bhāsvat, Udaya, and Jiṣṇu being the last
These too are the various kings of the mlecchas
After that, the kings will defy propriety By serving the interests of foreigners. {.
“At that time, the king of Nepāla Will perish from armed onslaughts
The vidyā s will be lost, and so will be the kings Who served the mleccha rogues. {.} “Many different kings have been foretold, Including some partial to the brahmins, Whose rule will extend All around Tibet. {.
“The king Hiraṇyagarbha will have A great and very powerful army
He will be a friend to many people, And his government will extend far and wide. {.
“He will be honored by the mlecchas as a conqueror And devoted to the teachings of the Teacher
He will accomplish the mantra Of the divine youth of great splendor {.
“And will derive from it great power. He will employ the eight-syllable vidyārāja Known as ‘Great Hero,’ Which confers great fortune and authority. {.
“With this mantra, which is certain to confer Buddhahood merely by recollecting it, The king will naively focus On the affairs of his realm, {.
“Occupying himself with small matters For the sake of his kingdom While wishing to obtain Supreme boons. {.
“He will command, at all times, All the deities such as Brahmā and so forth, Let alone the people in the world Or other beings in reviled states of existence. {.
“This great king will live one hundred and fifty years, And then go to heaven
In due course he will fully assimilate the Dharma And attain supreme awakening. {.
“The vidyā s taught by the divine youth Will be efficacious in that country
These vidyā s and none other Will swiftly lead to success. {.
“The valiant bodhisattva Mañjughoṣa of great splendor Will be manifestly present In that country in his youthful form
It is the place of supreme accomplishment, And people there will accomplish the state of divinity. {.
“A king by the name Turuṣka Will rise in the country up north
Valiant and commanding a great army, He will rule the area extending Up to the gateway of Kaśmīra And including Baṣkala, Udyāna, and Kāviśa. {.
“This king will rule an area Extending over one hundred and seven leagues [With a population of] Two hundred and seventy-seven thousand
This will happen, there is no doubt, During the debased eon. {.
“Turuṣka will master the mantras And will live three hundred years
This wise king who watches over the people Will accomplish the vidyā Keśinī. {.
“Adding to his glory, He will establish monasteries And build eighty-six thousand Great stūpas. {.
“The excellent Mahāyāna Dharma Will be established in that country, Including the mother of the buddhas— The Prajñāpāramitā. {.
“When King Turuṣka leaves his body, He will go to the celestial realm, And in due course he will attain Supreme awakening. {.
“After him, there will be another king By the name of Mahāturuṣka
He will be wise, highly esteemed, And wholeheartedly devoted to his teachers
He will accomplish the mantra Of the powerful goddess Tārā. {.
“His mantra accomplishment will also [serve] The interests of his kingdom on earth
This king, with powerful vassals and a great army, Will be called ‘great lord’ on earth. {.
“He will be accepted as king Even by his own relatives
At that time, there will be Eight thousand monasteries [in his domain]. {.
“Through the power of his mantra He will live two hundred years
When he leaves his body, He will be reborn in Tuṣita And revered by the gods there As a powerful bodhisattva. {.
“In due course he will fully assimilate the Dharma By perfecting the limbs of awakenin
And, with due effort and care, Will attain the unequaled awakening. {.
“In that country the teachings Will always proliferate, Whether those taught by the victors in the past Or those taught now by me
It will be filled with desireless beings And powerful nāga s. {.
“At that time, there will be on earth The guardian deities and the yakṣa s Who will guard the teachings of the Teacher And protect the sacred Dharma. {.
“Kings of many different types have been foretold Who will be renowned throughout the world
Having been taught themselves, They will teach [the Dharma] at that terrible time. {.} “In the country of the Lāḍas, Which extends from Ujjain To the westernmost part Bordered by the ocean, {.
“There will be a Dharma king By the name of Śīla, who will take delight In the teachings of the Buddha
He will be based in the city of Vallabhī. {.
“The king, fond of the Dharma, Will apply himself wholeheartedly To the task of building fine monasteries and reliquaries And to improving the lives of sentient beings. {.
“He will perform various pūjās And make beautiful images of the Victorious One
He will worship the finest reliquaries Of the most illustrious among the lords of the world
He will not be a master of mantras But only reap the supreme benefits of his past karma. {.
In that country, there was once A well-known monk who subsisted on alms
He was disciplined, intelligent, And took delight in the teachings of the Buddha. {.
“In the course of time, this great being Entered [the royal city] on an alms round
He beheld a splendid royal palace, Sprawling and bustling with people. {.
“Seeking alms, he entered there, Afflicted by hunger, thirsty, And weary in his mind. He did not obtain any alms. {.
“He was seized by guardsmen, Swiftly expelled from the house
And escorted away by the king’s soldiers In a state of mental distress. {.
“He then left that city And went to his own place, Hungry and thirsty
In his pain, his mind grew dim. {.
“Deprived of nourishment, The ascetic breathed out his last At midnight
Quick in his mind, He made an aspiration at that time, To be reborn as the king of the Lāḍas. {.
“After some time has passed, the monk will be reborn In the royal Dhara family [as King Śīla]. This great being will worship The teachings of the Teacher. {.
“He will rule for thirty years, Making the kingdom trouble-free
As the result of a plot by his greedy kinsmen, He will develop indigestion and fall unconscious. {.
“When his body fails and the king dies, He will be reborn in the god real
Where the gods are ‘supremely happy’ And where Maitreya resides. {.
“He will be reborn where this great being Teaches the Dharma, And he will respectfully listen To the teachings of the splendorous Maitreya
In due course, he will attain the awakening That is so difficult to obtain. {.
“Within half a year Of King Śīla’s demise, There will be another one called Capala
Having ruled for five months, He will be killed By armed mercenaries. {.
“He will fall, slain with a sword, Because of problems brought on by women
Then Dhruva, his junior, Will firmly establish himself. {.
“A naive and heartsick womanizer, He will become the king of the Lāḍas
All the remaining [Lāḍa] kings, however, Were womanizers only prior [to becoming kings]. {.
“After King Śīla’s demise, The lines of these former [servants] Will all become kings Over the maritime provinces as far as Persia. {.
“In the city of Vāravatī There will be the kings Foretold under the names of Indra, Sucandra , Dhanus, Ketu, and Puṣpa. {.
“They will come to the city of Vallabhī And start their own line [of kings], Thousands of whom will have the name Prabha or Viṣṇu. {.
“There will be countless kings Descending from Yadu. The last of them Will have the name Viṣṇu. {.
“Cursed by a ṛṣi, This wise king will meet his end Along with his relatives and fellow city dwellers, And his city will be submerged in water
His Vāravatī will find Its resting place in the ocean. {.
“All around the northern area, In various foothill regions, There will rise, it is said, Countless kings of different origin, Thirty of them known to be Of the royal Śaka line. {.
“Eighteen kings are foretold as rulers Of the entire middle country
In the end, those of the Nāgasena dynasty And the others will both come to an end. {.
“After them will come Viṣṇu, Hara, Ājita [known] by the name of Kunta, Īśāna , Śarva, Paṅkti, Graha , and Suvrata. {.
“When these kings fall Or otherwise lose importance, There will come two very wealthy and prosperous men Descended from [the king] Viṣṇu. {.} “They will be from Madhyadeśa, their names will start with Bh, And both will be chief ministers, Renowned as wealthy and prosperous, Who delight in this auspicious teaching. {.
“They will also recite mantras— One that is king among your mantras, O divine youth. Subsequently they will become [kings], Protectors of the land and lords of the people. {.
“The population of Śrīkaṇṭha will be Seven times eight times three hundred
The vaiśyas with the name of Āditya Will dwell in [the capital] Sthāṇvīśvara. {.
“In the end, there will undoubtedly come a king Who will rule over the entire territory
His name will start with the letter H, And he will be, it is said, the king of all of the land. {.
“The mantras that will be efficacious In that country at that time Will be the vidyā s of pacifying and nourishing Taught by the Dharma King. {.
“[As the result, people] will enjoy Various material comforts and good fortunes
The powerful yakṣiṇīs Manifesting various forms Will be effectively mastered there During the debased eon. {.
“In the southern territories That border on the ocean Will rise King Svātisucandra Of the Sātavāhana dynasty. {.
“There will be kings Mahendra, Śaṅkara, And the great Vallabha, Also called Sukeśin or Keśin, In the southern countries
There will be Maṅgala called Vallabha, And also Govinda called Vṛṣaketu. {.} “The king Mahendra will also be called Mahāpota, Pota, and Candra. Gopendra will be also called Indrasena, And Mādhava, Pradyumna. {.
“Gaṇaśaṅkara will be called ‘Tiger,’ And Budha, ‘Lion.
The pure Budha will also be known By the names of Kumbha and Nikumbha. {.
“There will be Mathita, Sumita, Bala, and the keśin kings Pulina and Sukeśin. {.
“There are innumerable kings Said to belong to the southern region— They include the past, The present, and the future kings. {.
“They will be afflicted by various diseases And will die different types of death, Including in armed conflicts or from famine. Some of them will go to heaven. {.
“It is said that all these kings Will be given to hostilities
They will end with Mahendra called Pota, Meeting their destruction just like him. {.
“Those who so desire will be able To accomplish their mantras at that time and place
The mantras that can be accomplished Will be those of the Vajra family That are beneficial in the activities Of assault and of subduing. {.
“The mantra of the great being Mañjuśrī, The divine prince with a youthful form, Will be effective in that land, At that time, during the lowest eon. {.
“The deity known as Kārttikeya Will grant boons to beings Who dwell between the Vindhyas And the saltwater oceans. {.
“By the command of The sagacious bodhisattva Mañjughoṣa, Kārttikeya will take up his abode in the southern regions, Desiring to bring benefit to beings. {.
“The mantras of Kārttikeya Have been taught by Mañjughoṣa
There is no doubt that they will bring success At that time and in that region, Including in the country of Śrīparvata And the valleys and ridges of the Vindhyas. {.
“It is said that in all the islands Of the coasts of Kaliṅga, In the countries of the three types of mlecchas, In the areas surrounding Kośala, And in the ocean’s bays and peninsulas There will be innumerable kings. {.
“The kings of the Kāmarūpa line(s) Will rule at the foot of the snowy mountains
There will be many kings, it is said, All around in the maritime provinces. {.
“Many kings of the mleccha hordes Will be devoted to worshiping the Teacher
Indra and the great king Sucandra Will live in mleccha countries. {.
“Both these kings will take joy In studying the teachings there for eight years. All the beings there will have faith in you And worship the images of the Teacher. {.
“They will have faith in the Victor’s teaching, Of this there is no doubt
Many eminent kings based in the eastern lands Have been described, Those of the past, the present, And the future—of all the periods. {.
“I will start with the eminent king Born on earth in the dynastic Gauḍa family
He will be born to Yaśasvin In the pleasant city of Vardhamāna. {.} “This king, Loka by name, Will bring prosperity to Gauḍa
He will care for the Dharma When I arise in this world no more. {.
“Many kings will come, Pursuing various activities in their lives
Hear now the true account of the kings Of Madhyadeśa during the middle period Who will follow the Dharma of the Middle Way And provide comfort in the final, lowest eon. {.
“There will be the famous kings Known as Samudra and Vikrama, The eminent king Mahendra, And after him, the emperor with the initial S, {.
“Who will also be known, In this debased eon, by the name Devarāja, As well as other different names
He will be intelligent and will patronize the Dharma. {.
“His younger successor by the name Bāla Will delight in the auspicious doctrine
He will beautifully adorn the eastern region As far as the sea with caityas. {.
“He will build, there is no doubt, Monasteries, parks, ponds, Gardens, and of course shelters Throughout the whole country. {.
“This glorious king will establish Road links by building bridges. He will worship the images of the Teacher And cause those with faith to worship them too. {.
“This great king will make the kingdom Trouble-free and without equal
He will live [secular life] for thirty-six years and thirty days, And then he will renounce the world. {.
“Later, the king will commit suicide By becoming insensible while meditating
He will become a monk Because of grief for his son. {.
“When his body gives out, He will fall into the hell realms
Having stayed there For four days, {.} “After he leaves his hell body behind, The king will be reborn, naturally, In the celestial realm of the pious gods Known as the Pure Abode
Himself pure by nature, he will become The king of gods destined for awakening. {.
“Having experienced celestial pleasures For hundreds of thousands of years, He will once again be reborn as a human And become a buddha in his subsequent rebirth Due to the acts [of kindness] toward sentient beings Carried out in his previous births. {.
“He lived in the country of Kālava, In the city called Ujjayinī
There, he became a prominent merchant Of great wealth. {.
“It was a period without a buddha, But some powerful pratyeka­buddhas Wandered in the world That was empty and desolate. {.
“Wandering thus in the land Out of the desire to benefit beings, They entered the city of Ujjayinī To seek alms. {.
“While these great beings, the vargacārins, Were walking along the main street, The merchant, seeing the sages, Approached them {.
“And invited them to his house To partake of some food
Having brought these distinguished ascetics to his home, He promptly offered them seats and said, {.
“ ‘Please join me, venerable sirs! Now is the mealtime.
The great beings remained silent And did not say a word. {.
“Then they held out their bowls To the merchant for any alms he might give
Communicating with these learned men By gestures, {.} “The merchant filled their bowls With different types of food
He carefully distributed it With his own hand. {.
“Having accepted it, The pratyeka­buddhas all went to heaven, Where they can be seen as a string of lights, Nestled in the firmament of the sky. {.
“The merchant, his hair bristling with joy, Very excited, fell on the ground right there, His mind humbled by the great power [Of the pratyeka­buddhas]. {.
“He made an aspiration at that time, Saying the following words
‘Due to this root of virtue That I have accumulated today, May I become a supreme buddha Just like these eminent sages.’ {.
“Subsequently, he was reborn on earth Ten thousand times as an empero
And, after leaving the human body, Six hundred million times as a god. {.
“When he leaves his existence as a god, Having experienced great pleasures for a long time
He will obtain a human birth in this world, Subject to another’s will. {.
“He will certainly be born In this world into a royal family As the king by the name of Bāla, Who will rule a country in the east. {.
“After thousands of more births Filled with lasting, unadulterated pleasure, This glorious king Will ultimately attain omniscience. {.
“So, knowing how manifold And extensive is the resulting good fortune, Who would not worship the Teacher And make requests to him
Who would not engage in noble deeds And pursue the path of awakening? {.
“The next king after [Bāla], Who will rule over the Gauḍas, Will be known under the name Kumāra
He too will be exceedingly virtuous. {.
“After Kumāra , there will be a glorious king Known by the name with the initial U
After him, the Gauḍas Will fall out with one another {.
“And, with violent thoughts, Will form large factions
Thereafter, there will come the king called Deva, Also known as ‘the Magadhan.’ {.
“He too will be surrounded on all sides, Attacked, and destroyed by his enemies
After him the kingship will fall To the next king called Candra. {.
“[Candra] too will die by the sword Because of his former actions
As for his son Dvādaśa, He will live on for another several months. {.
“He too will die by the sword When still a young boy
These kings will relish hostilities, Intent on causing problems for one another. {.
“At that time will rise a stalwart king With the initial of Bh
The best among the Gauḍa people, He will be stricken with a serious illness. {.
“Overcome by this illness, He will meet his demise
After him, there will be a king with the initial D, Who will rule only for a few days. {.
“He will be based in the Gauḍa country By the bank of the Gaṅgā
After him there will be a king with the initial Bh, Who will rule for three days. {.
“After that there will be King Gopālaka, Who will represent everything that a king should
He will speak gently, will be compassionate, And will possess great strength. {.
“Under the sway of women as a young man, Heartsick and foolish, he will vanquish his opponents
But when he meets a virtuous friend, He will become very charitable. {.
“He will then build monasteries, caityas, Various pleasant gardens and parks, Ponds full of water, And beautiful hospitals. {.
“Many people will proclaim his fame As one who performs acts of servic
Such as building deity shrines, Caves, and dwellings. {.
“The land will be overrun by heretics Belonging to different tīrthika groups
Every place will be overrun by them As far as the ocean’s shore. {.
“This great king, however, being compassionate, Wealthy, and sensible, will patronize the Dharma
This powerful monarch will rule In the eastern territories, there is no doubt. {.
“In his old age, he will suddenly Fall ill with dysentery
Having ruled, On the bank of the Gaṅgā, For twenty-seven years, He will die at the age of eighty. {.
“After his body gives out, He will be reborn in the god realms
Then will come a glorious Nāga king, Devoted to and fond of the Dharma. {.
“He will build caityas and commission Beautiful images of the Teacher
He will also construct monasteries For the saṅgha. {.
“Due to the maturing of this karma, He will, in his final birth, Enter the path to awakening And attain the unshakable state. {.
“From his time onward, the earthly capital of the Gauḍas Will be overrun by tīrthikas
Then, in this eastern city Troubled by the tīrthikas, A king called Bhagavat Will come to power among the Gauḍas. {.
“He will be consecrated by Prabhaviṣṇu, A vow holder from the south
Having consolidated his kingship, He will make a [military] foray to the west. {.
“He will wantonly enter The pleasant city of Sāketa But, defeated by the enemy, Will have to retreat. {.
“In the east, on the ocean’s edge, He will be surrounded by bandits And will die from the blow of a weapon
He will be reborn as a preta. {.
“Having ruled for merely three years Over a small kingdom And then seized and killed by bandits, He will become a powerful pret
And rule over the pretas For three years. {.
“He will then leave his preta body And the terrible preta realm
Released thus from his birth as a preta, He will surely go to heaven. {.
“The king that will succeed [Bhagavat] Will be known under the name Samudra
Dull and feebleminded, He will rule the kingdom for just three days
His younger brother who will succeed him Will be known under the name Bhasma. {.
“This mighty lord will engage in excessive killing And commit other despicable acts
He will be careless and without compassion toward others, But ever careful and vigilant about his own person. {.
“Unconcerned about the hereafter, He will perform animal sacrificies in this world
Having met a nonvirtuous friend, He will accumulate a lot of evil karma. {.
“His kingdom will be overrun With brahmins and pathetic logicians
The people and the pitṛs will enjoy Luxuries of various types
And also the king will obtain Good fortune of many kinds. {.
“This king will gradually Advance toward the west, Until his territory extends up to The gateway of Kaśmīra. {.
“Victorious in battles there, He will rule his entire kingdom For twelve years And fifteen months. {.
“When struck with an illness, He will faint again and again, collapsing onto the ground
Overcome by great pain and with his body failing, He will die and be reborn in lower realms. {.
“Mutual enmities will [then break out in Bengal] Among those greedy for the crown
They will engage in armed struggle, Fighting one another. {.
“At that time, they will consecrate To kingship a young boy with the initial S
The brahmins who will do this Will be divided among themselves, So they will make him a ruler in title only, And then remove him. {.
“A brahmin will arrive In the province of Magadha, in the city Udumbara, And will consecrate as rulers upon earth Two boys. {.
“They will gradually extend their rule To include the eastern provinces
Once they reach the Gauḍa province, They will have no rivals. {.
“The two boy leaders will be killed By a rogue from Kaliṅga Who, because of his association with bad friends, Will commit many murders. {.
“He will kill All the inhabitants of Gauḍa Who formerly sided With the arrogant, warring kings. {.
“After him, King Soma, A hero without equals, Will rule as far as the river Gaṅgā, In Vārāṇasī, and beyond. {.
“In his ignorance, he will destroy The beautiful images of the Teache
And, as prophesied earlier by the Victorious One, Will burn the great Bridge of the Dharma {.
“This ignoramus will delight In the teachings of the tīrthika
And will be despised as a cruel And greedy person who holds wrong views. {.
“He will demolish, throughout the land, All the monasteries, gardens, caityas, And shelters for mendicants, And he will also destroy people’s livelihoods. {.
“At that time, there will rise In Madhyadeśa a fine king with the initial R
He will be dedicated to his work And unwavering in his vaiśya ways. {.} “This king, capable to follow this teaching, Will equal the one called Soma But will be overthrown By that king of the Nagna caste. {.
“Then, his younger brother with the initial H Will become a hero without equals
He will have a great army And be brave in his conquests. {.
“This H -initialed king from the vaiśya caste, With his powerful army and many soldiers, Will take action to uproot the king Known as Soma. {.
“He will advance against the eastern country And its capital city called Puṇḍra
He will assume the duties of a kṣatriya With respect to [Soma], who cannot control his pride and anger. {.
“[It is with] compassion, dedication to the Dharma, And understanding [that] he will take many lives But will rejoice only at defeating [Soma], Who is wont to oppress living beings. {.
“He will thus defeat Soma, This perpetrator of evil acts
Soma will henceforth be confined To his own country, where he will remain. {.
“The H -initialed king will [then] withdraw, Honored in the kingdom of the mlecchas, Pleased about his work, and basking in the glory Of someone who dutifully attends to his affairs. {.
“He will go back to his own country, Free to travel wherever he wants to
The task will thus be accomplished By those who took joy in kingship. {.
“[Soma] will now obtain The comforts that attend the royal life
Because he offered in the past Food and clothes to a pratyeka­buddha. {.
“He presented him with a pair of shoes And adorned him with a parasol and a whisk
By the power of this karma, He will become a great king {.
“And will enjoy a complete array Of pleasures, both human and divine
This brahmin called Soma Will thus be endowed with great pleasures. {.
“He will thus rule his kingdom, Bestowing benefits on the brahmins
“After seventeen years, One month, And seven or eight days, He will develop a mouth disease. {.
“Eaten by parasites, he will die And fall into the lower realms
His capital will then Be destroyed by nonhuman beings. {.
“Due to the ills of his human condition, The king, his time having come, Will develop fever and a debilitating illness. He will die killed by the mantras used against him. {.
“This evildoer Will then fall Into the hell called Avīci, Propelled by his bad karma. {.
“That evil-minded one Will burn in the Avīci hell for one great eon
After that, he will stay in the hells called Aṭaṭa, Hahava, Sañjīva, Kālasūtra, {.} “And the terrible hell of Asipattra
He will experience these places again and again, And then the worlds of animals, Pretas, and the world of Yama, again and again. {.
“In this way he will circle in saṃsāra, Born there thousands of times, again and again
He will not find any pleasure, But will continually experience suffering. {.
“You should therefore apply yourselves With effort to the doctrine of the Tathāgata, Generating faith with every thought, So that you may go to the place free from the fever of afflictions. {.
“Assisting the Buddha, or offending against him, Has infinite karmic results
One should therefore cultivate faith In the Buddha, the Dharma, and the Saṅgha. {.
“Kings who worship the Three Jewels Become the foremost in the world— Great lords with great kingdoms, Many pleasures, and great wealth. {.
“They obtain various types of happiness And vast good fortune
By worshiping the best among men, They attain the status of a sovereign in the world. {.
“They can further attain the status Of a Śakra, a Yāma, or a Brahmā
Here on earth, they can become A śrāvaka, a pratyeka­buddha, or a buddha, Obtaining excellence in the three vehicles And arriving at non-attachment following the two. {.
“The buddhas are inconceivable
The buddhas’ wisdom is inconceivable
The results they reap are inconceivable
The ripening of the results is inconceivable. {.
“After King Soma’s departure From the earthly realm, There will be mutual discord Within the government of the Gauḍa state, With weapons ever at the ready And without any mutual regard. {.
“This will last For seven days, one month, or more, Until, inevitably, a people-supported rule Is established throughout the land On this bank of the Gaṅgā— The site of many monasteries. {.
“Next after [Soma] Will be his son, Mānava
He will rule for eight months and five days and will die at night; It will take him one and a half days to die. {.
“The next king of Gauḍa Will be named Nāgarāja — A young boy of the vaiśya caste. {.
“Close to him there will be Jaya and the other brahmins
The so-called Nāga s will all be vaiśyas, And will be surrounded by [other] vaiśyas. {.
“When stricken by famine, They will be attacked by a foreign army
Without an [adult] king, The kingdom will be plagued by many bandits And will politically deteriorate. {.
“For five years they will Experience a lot of fear and danger
Having killed many beings, They will perish themselves. {.
“Because of their past transgressions, These vaiśya people Will be predisposed To mutual discord. {.
“At that time, without a doubt, Prabhaviṣṇu of the kṣatriya caste Will become the king Who will govern Gauḍa. {.
“Some [Gauḍa] kings will die by weapons And some will succumb to illness
When they die, They will fall into the hell realms. {.} “The next king will be Śiśu, who will defer to women
He will rule merely for a fortnight, And then be slain by a weapon. {.
“A great famine will follow, As will an invasion by a foreign army
The eastern provinces will thus become dismembered, And the people terrorized and driven insane. {.
“These kings will rise in that country, There is no doubt. One born in Mathurā and known to be a vaiśya, Formerly a merchant, Will become the king of Magadha
“His descendant, with the initial Bh, Will live in the eastern country
His son, with the initial P, will be born, Too, in the eastern provinces
He will be described as a prominent kṣatriya
When a young boy, he will be imprisoned. {.
“He will thus spend seventeen years In prison under supervision
Imprisoned by the king called Gopa, He will be released by the king called Bhagavat. {.
“A great king with the initial H Will come from a western country And occupy the Gangetic plain As far as the eastern frontier. {.
“This great king will be from the śūdra caste And will have a powerful army with many soldiers
Having consolidated his rule on the banks [of the Gaṅgā], He will then extend it all around. {.
“This very powerful king Will besiege and occupy The city in Gauḍa Known as Tīrtha. {.
“A kṣatriya youth will arrive, Accompanied by a merchant, And will enter the city at night
At dawn, honors will be bestowed upon him. {.} “The king described as a śūdra Will then return back to The banks of the Gaṅgā, To the city called Nanda. {.
“He will, at that time, appoint that boy To the kingship of Magadha
The śūdra king will proceed to the country of Kāśī And will advance into the city of Vārāṇasī. {.
“Having entered the city, This great and mighty king of the śūdra caste Will fall ill with a serious disease
He will then consecrate his son to kingship. {.} “Having thus been consecrated to kingship The young boy with the name of a planet
The śūdra king, will succumb to severe illness And fall down upon the earth. {.
“Struggling, he will breathe his last
His body broken, he will pass to another existence And spend eight months and fifteen days In the animal realm. {.
“When released from his birth as an animal, He will be born among the gods, where, For twenty births, he will experience Various celestial enjoyments. {.
“In due course, after devoting himself to the Dharma, He will attain the realization of a pratyeka­buddha
This will happen because of the karma That he accumulated in his former births. {.
“He provided clothes To a great being pratyeka­buddha
He gave him shoes, And draft elephants, and horses
He offered him food With all due attention. {.
“By the ripening of this karma He became Indra, the lord of gods
In that celestial realm He passed three hundred million lives
When he descends onto earth again, He will become, in that birth, this king. {.
“He will enjoy a kingdom That has been won by others
His son [Soma] will be installed As king in Vārāṇasī. {.
“The kingdom will be attacked From all sides, pillaged, and destroyed
It will be filled with brahmins to excess And overrun by enemies. {.
“The king designated as a ‘planet’ Will be careless and pleasure seeking
In the end, he will die After being struck by an enemy. {.
“When King Soma is dead, There will now be mutual strife Everywhere in the eastern region For the kingship of Magadha. {.
“A kṣatriya with the initial P, Honored [earlier as king] By the śūdra [king] with the initial H, Will become king in the territory Right up to the bank of the Gaṅgā, Across from Vārāṇasī. {.
“He will rule in the city called Nanda, Nestled on the bank of the Gaṅgā
He will become a kṣatriya king Propelled by the former deeds That he performed and rejoiced at After they were performed. {.
“A long time ago, during the life Of the Teacher called Kanaka, There was in the great city of Vārāṇasī A distinguished and wealthy person. {.
“The merchant’s son, a young boy, Kept company with foolish boys
One time he went out onto the main road To play in the sand. {.
“Having previously seen the stūpa in his own house, Worshiped by his father and mother, He visualized such a stūpa in his mind And created it from the sand. {.
“He then offered to this stūpa Some flowers from a used garland And praised it, Recollecting the Buddha with faith. {.
“The boy thus played, Surrounded by other children
At that time, there was an eminent śrāvaka disciple Of the victorious Kanaka who wandered alone. {.
“He was free of faults, focused, With a mind free from the three spheres
This fault-free śrāvaka Was doing his alms round. {.
“He entered at that time The beautiful city of Vārāṇasī
Free from attachment, he arrived At the place where the children were. {.} “They all surrounded him On all sides and shouted
‘Come here monk, come here
Salute the caitya of the Teacher
We carefully built it ourselves
You will not be disappointed.’ {.
“The merchant’s young son Then took a rope of twisted grass And playfully tied it To the dispassionate and very dignified monk. {.
“Dispassionate and dignified, The monk listened attentively
He saw on the ground there The caitya that the children built
Allowing the boy to have his way, The noble-minded monk said, {.
“ ‘Release me, son
Let us go where your creation is.
All of them then went to the place Where the reliquary was. {.} “The dispassionate great being paid homage To the caitya along with the children
The hero then set off again To seek alms as he wished. {.
“The merchant’s young son, however, Seized the end of the monk’s robe And led him to his own home, Where he arranged for some food. {.
“At this moment the senior merchant, Seeing the boy holding The end of the robe Of the dispassionate and dignified monk, {.} “Became alarmed and his hair bristled
Thinking, ‘An exalted guest has come to my house,’ He fell down at the monk’s feet And promptly made the boy let go of the robe. {.
“Holding back his son, He apologized to the monk in earnest
He then took the bowl from the kind [monk], The supreme conqueror of the senses, {.
“And filled it with food Consisting of rice and condiments
He then ordered his son To take the bowl and pass it to the monk. {.
“The boy, having understood, Carefully washed his hands, Took the full bowl, And handed it to the dispassionate monk. {.
“Having handed it over, He promptly fell at the monk’s feet
The dispassionate one took the bowl, Went back to his monastery, and ate the food
Free from attachment, He obtained a pleasant sense of satisfaction. {.
“Another boy, however, Experienced feelings of envy
The next day, Feeling nothing but anger, He took plenty of hard and soft food And offered it to the dispassionate one, saying, {.
“ ‘If there is any virtue In offering alms to you, May I become, through this, Richer than the merchant’s son on this earth.’ {.
“Then all the tīrthikas And all the brahmin wives Gathered together And quarreled, criticizing one another: {.
“ ‘Don’t you know this, you fool
How can the “bald heads” get anywhere
Not abiding in the Self, How could these outsiders ever attain nirvāṇa?’ {.
“A similar hatred Arose in the boy
He subsequently destroyed Things that were praised by the Teacher: {.} “The ever-celebrated Bridge of the Dharma And the best monasteries and caityas
He also murdered the son Of that senior merchant. {.
“[He said at that time,] ‘What would I gain By giving them a pot of water
I will exterminate these “bald heads” Who are preoccupied with the thoughts of lower rebirth.’ {.
“The boy who said this Will be the king by the name Soma
He will experience pain for a long time, As the inevitable result of his karma. {.
“The son of that senior merchant Went to heaven when he died
Time after time, he experienced Pleasures among the celestial beings. {.} “Again and again, he lived in the gods’ realms
When he departs from that realm, In his final birth, He will cut the bonds completely. {.
“In his third life as a human, He will become the ruler of the land
But, because of his karma, he will fall again and again, At different times and in different places. {.
“His birth will be in this world, Where he will carry out the duties of a king on earth
Because he had offered to the stūpa, In play, as a child, flowers that had been discarded, {.
“His pleasures will be tainted As the result of his tainted generosity
Like a broken joint, This king will obtain pleasure with difficulty. {.
“Because his large offering To a Teacher’s reliquary on earth Was done wholly without firmness, naively, And with an unsteady mind, {.
“He will, by the maturing of this karma, Experience instability in his reign— Now he will be king, Now he will not. {.
“He will act as king in the northern, Eastern, and central territories
Because the monk, free in his mind, Was first bound and then released by the boy, {.
“The boy was, by the ripening of this karma, Bound and released Repeatedly over the course Of five hundred lives. {.
“In his final birth, though, he will Break out of his bondage once and for all
In that life he will rule fifty-five years, Or perhaps seventy-seven
He will be king on earth, Up to the shore of the eastern ocean. {.
“All the mleccha bandits from the borderlands Who live in the Vindhya valleys Will come under the control Of this P -initialed ruler of the land, {.
“And so will those that live up north, In the foothills of the Himalayas
This kṣatriya king will rule at that time All the provinces. {.
“Because, in his simplicity, He built a stūpa out of sand when still a child, He will become the king of Magadha. He will rule, without rivals and without troubles, Up to the frontier forest
And as far as the eastern ocean. {.
“The wise king will propagate The teachings of the Teacher From the west bank of the Brahmaputra To the Himalayas in the north, The pleasant city of Kāśī in the west, And the city called Śṛṅga [in the south]. {.
“After conquering the two kings Called Pañcakesarī, The king will consolidate his rule. The entire [dynastic] family of Siṃha Will be uprooted and destroyed. {.
“This kṣatriya king Will then rule all the provinces In the east including the Himalayan valleys, As far as the banks of the Daśānūpa. {.
“The Siṃha kings, such as Deva and so forth, Will rule over other rogue peoples, [But] he will establish himself As the king over [all] the inhabitants of the Vindhyas. {.
“In the middle country said to be difficult to access, An extremely wicked king will rule
There will likewise be another king named Siṃha, Who will rule over the north and the east. {.
“At that time, when even the people of Gauḍa are afraid, There will be, there is no doubt
This kṣatriya king Described as ‘born prosperous.’ {.} “Born into increasing prosperity, The king will likewise experience increasing comforts
Even in his old age, His enjoyments will not change. {.
“He will live for eighty years, Seven [months], and seven [days]
Then, overcome by old age, The king will die and go to heaven, {.
“Where he will experience happiness For a long time in the gods’ realms
However, due to his past karma That was tainted by afflictive emotions, He will fall from this realm and spend one month In the animal realm as a powerful nāga king. {.
“Having accomplished the mantra, He will be a victor who chooses his own destiny And a sugata who becomes A king of the vidyādharas, {.
“Also known as a cakravartin. His name will be Citraketu. [Because of his] exploits as a vidyādhara, He will also be called Sagacious. {.
“As a cakravartin, He will experience divine and human pleasures For eight hundred million years, Nine [months], and seven [days]. He will have a retinue of Six hundred million young girls. {.
“When he leaves his body, he will, Propelled by the goddess Tārā, Become the lord of gods, To whom he will teach the Dharma
Stage by stage, this king will swiftly progress Toward awakening. {.
“After the death of the P -initialed king, At that time, during the debased eon, There will ensue a great, mutually destructive struggle Among the pretenders to the throne. P’s minister will rule the kingdom For seven days. {.} “After seven days he will be succeeded By a king with the initial V, Who also, attacked and overthrown, Will be forced to go into exile. {.} “The [king] with the initial Bh, Accepted as the successor of the king P, Will rule the kingdom For three years. {.} “His younger brother, with the initial V, Will be supervised by a vow holder. He will bring economic growth Over a period of four years. {.} “Both of them will fall ill with indigestion And fall unconscious due to a sudden onset of dysentery. After they die in this world, They will be reborn as yakṣa s. In due course, they will turn toward the Dharma And attain the realization of a pratyeka­buddha. {.} “His younger brother, with the initial Dh, A kṣatriya devoted to the Dharma, Will be king, a lord of men, For three years. {.} “After him, his youngest brother, Widely known by the name beginning with V, Will become the king of the country, Ruling over the entire territory. {.
“With elephants, horses, chariots, and boats In every direction, He will conquer all the enemies That he faces in battle. {.
“He will adorn all the provinces And all the land With images of the Teacher, monasteries, And reliquaries of the victorious ones
He will maintain all of them well, And make the entire earth more beautiful. {.
“He will be of royal ancestry, A twice-born of the Śākya line
He will be noble, of keen intellect, and wise. With his noble intellect, he will be destined for awakening. {.
“At that time, during the debased eon, He will obtain lasting happiness. Described as a kṣatriya of outstanding intellect, This king will patronize the Dharma
He will live one hundred and twenty years And, if he takes care, another seven or eight years. {.
“He will die due to problems brought on by women And ascend to the celestial realm
Proceeding through the stages, This wise king will attain the ultimate awakening. {.
“After him, the lord of the land Will be known by the name of Śrī
In his governance of Gauḍa, This great king will patronize the Dharma. {.
“He will conquer his enemies all around And will rule his kingdom From the capital city of Gauḍa whose name begins with B, And which has a large population. {.
“He will build seven monasteries there, Followed by another eight
He will form an alliance With a prominent brahmin called Śākaja. {.
“Ruling with him as his ally, He will consolidate his rule throughout
This king will live Eighty-one years. {.} “He will die through his minister’s faul
But, devoted to the Dharma, will ascend to heaven
In due course, he will act As king of the gods. {.
“When he dies, he will go to heaven And move on an ever-higher realm
Skillfully fulfilling the conditions For attaining awakening. {.
“On earth, his minister will become the king And will rid the kingdom of troubles
The name of this ruler Begins with Y. {.
“During that period He will rule the kingdom for eight years
Killed by women, He will proceed to the lower realms. {.
“The next king will be, again, A kṣatriya of the P dynasty
He will kill a group of ministers Who are closely connected. {.
“Having met a nonvirtuous friend, He will kill many beings
Infatuated with his great power, He will rule the entire realm. {.
“He will be quick to act, fickle, And a drunkard fond of rogues
He will pass out on the floor In a drunken stupor. {.
“He will be struck and slain with weapons By enemies ready to kill
With his body thus destroyed, He will die and fall into the lower realms. {.
“On earth, one of his brothers, Known by the name beginning with R
Will then rule the kingdom For forty-eight days. {.
“He will provide the brahmins with wealth, Without a doubt, until his death
The king next after him Will be a ‘dog eater,’ and so forth. {.
“He will be from the śūdra caste, Crippled, and thoroughly reviled
He will be averse to the Dharma, undisciplined, And always delighting in war. {.
“Not only will he neglect all his vassals, The brahmins, the ascetics, And the Buddhist monks, But he will always delight in oppressing them. {.
“He will mete out severe punishments And execute bandits
He will suppress all the rogues Adhering to wrong vows. {.
“He will thus rule the kingdom Without making any provision for final liberation
This king will live Seventeen years only. {.
“After succumbing to the ravages of leprosy, He will die and be reborn in the animal realm, Where he will be a bold king of the nāga s With a big hood. {.
“His form, with an expanded hood, Will inspire utter dread
He will experience suffering for a long time As an inevitable result of Dharmic laws. {.
“Described as they [here have been], These kings, who will make the people prosper, Will have their base in the eastern region And will be known throughout the entire world. {.
“Born to a hereditary line Branching off from that of King P, There will be another king, a mighty kṣatriya hero Who will rule over the three seas. {.
“With a great and powerful army, He will rule in the same eastern regio
And adorn the earth With divine reliquaries of the Teacher, {.} “Monasteries, houses, temples, And gardens provided with various Ponds, well, pavilions, And, of course, hospitals and shelters. {.
“Devoted to the supreme victors, He will follow the supreme vehicle And certainly become A Śākya renunciant. {.
“He will avoid the unfree conditions And cultivate the free conditions
He will be known by the name beginning with K, Will have a good memory, and be skillful. {.
“This king will rule the kingdom For twenty-one years, Until he dies of cholera
He will be reborn in the celestial realm. {.
“This wise king will progress through the stages, Destined to attain awakening before long
The remaining members of his royal line Will live in subordination to others. {.
“The kings after him Will be the Gopālas of the servant caste
The people, without a doubt, Will be stingy toward the twice-born. {.
“During that lawless period When the teachings of the Teacher are lost, One will, [nevertheless], be able to bring Benefit to beings by reciting mantras. {.
“The mantras that bring prosperity That were taught by the divine youth Will be accomplished during that time In order to guarantee the king’s sovereignty
The supreme accomplishment, however, Will not be accomplished at that time in that country. {.
“The mantras that will be accomplished In the places where the Dharma wheel was turned, The pleasant grove of Mahābodhi Or the place where the Blessed One attained The peace that is free from rebirth, Are those of the deities Tārā and Bhṛkuṭī. {.
“As always, the [mantras of] the Lotus family Will be effective in places such as the ocean’s shore, Near the supreme thundering river, And everywhere along the banks of the Gaṅgā. {.
“The bodhisattva known by the name Candra Is said to be Tāra , the savior. With this name, he is also Tārā, The vidyārājñī of great power and majesty. {.
“Having morphed into a goddess with a female form, He wanders throughout the entire world In order to benefit beings, With the mind tender with compassion. {.
“In the world sphere of Sahā, He abides in the form called ‘woman,’ Who, nevertheless, is a powerful bodhisattva lord Abiding on the tenth level. {.
“Famed as the goddess Tārā, He guides sentient being
And provides protection, shelter, and cover With his effortless magical power. {.
“One should strive to accomplish [the mantra Of] this goddess who brings opulence and power And constitutes the cause for accumulating [The merit and wisdom] necessary for awakening. {.
“This goddess, at that time, will be connected, Through her compassion, to living beings, Constituting, in the form of the mantra, The cause for their accumulations that lead to awakening. {.
“She resides in the eastern region, Bringing happiness and nourishment to everyone
She manifests in five hundred forms That [each] emanate many more. {.
“She wanders the entire earth, As far as the four oceans
Her accomplishments will manifest Throughout the eastern region, in Vārāṇasī and beyond. {.
“The eastern region is famed As the territory of this goddess
There, too, can be accomplished Jambhala, A yakṣa king of great splendor. {.
“At that time during the debased eon, Those who desire affluence will be successful In accomplishing the yakṣa king and the goddess Tārā, Who fulfill the wishes for prosperity. {.
“Similarly, the wrathful mantras Will be effective in the southern region, Including the islands in the middle of the ocean Inhabited by mlecchas and pirates. {.
“Tārā and the powerful yakṣa king Will be accomplished also In Harikela, Karmaraṅga, Kāmarūpa, and Kalaśa. {.} “The mantras of all the various dūtīs And the powerful yakṣiṇīs
And the wealth-bringing mantras Chanted by Mañjughoṣa, Will be effective in those places And no other. {.
“There, in the eastern and the intermediate directions, The mantras that serve different purposes Taught for that particular time Will be also accomplished by living beings. {.
“In Madhyadeśa, there will be Various ministers and kings Who, generally, will be of weak character, Limited intelligence, and inferior understanding
The most important of them Are briefly enumerated below. {.
“Known by their initials, Their names begin With the letters M, N, P, D, I, S , and A. {.} “Further, there will be those With the names of Graha, and Kīrti And those with the initials H and Ś. {.} “There will be those from the lunar dynasty With the initials J, B , and L, And those with the initials H, Pra , and A. {.} “There will be those with female names Beginning with S and L , respectively, who will antagonize the people, And those with the initials S and M Will enjoy full sovereignty over the people. {.
“Gradually, concerning their typical occupation, The brahmins will take on the lifestyle of the vaiśyas
Most of them will commit acts contrary to the Dharma, Sowing discord and lusting after women. {.
“At that time, in this debased eon, The kings will have huge retinues
This will no doubt be the case With the kings of Madhyadeśa. {.
“At that time, during this debased eon, A human lifespan Of one hundred and twenty years Will be extolled as long. {.
“Among the prominent people of Madhya[deśa], There will be those long- and short-[lived]
All the kings foretold for this eon Will have a short lifespan. {.
“On the banks of the Gaṅgā, In the valleys of the Himalayas, And also in the country of Kāmarūpa, There will be kings as listed below. {.
“They are the first, the middle, and the last
Those specified for the country of Aṅga Are as follows: the first one, Vṛtsudhāna, Will be known as Karmarāja, {.
“And the last Aṅga king Will be Subhūtibhūti. In Kāmarūpa, there will be Sudaha and Bhavadatta, Who will be casteless. {.
“In Vaiśālī, at the time of V and Th, The last crown princes were Subhū and Mṛga
In the fine city of Kapilavastu, Where the Sage was born, {.
“The Śākya-born kings that ended with Śuddhodana Are said to descend from the solar Ikṣvāku dynasty
Śuddhodana is generally regarded as the last Śākya king Under whom the Śākyas prospered. {.
“The most eminent of men Also taught the mantras of the lesser capacity
These mantras, taught by the victors, Namely the mantras of all the ceṭa groups, {.
“The various dūtī groups, And all such mantras that belong to the Vajra and Lotus families, Will all succeed when employed By the adepts of the mantra system. {.
“All these worldly mantras Will be effective in Madhyadeśa
Particularly those that the victors Said reside in Madhyadeśa. {.
“With their different characteristics And different modes of function
These mantras are employed in various manners, Bringing to beings various accomplishments. {.
“Thus, the mantras particular to Madhyadeśa Are effective in bringing prosperity
They are also used for the sake of protection, Succor, and enthralling and attracting living beings. {.
“The past and the future kings Of Madhyadeśa that have been liste
Are distinguished by their various characteristics, Such as different lifespan or family lineage. {.
“All these kings are said to be Of either superior, middling, or inferior types
The accomplishments, likewise, are of three types
The mantras that were taught by the most eminent of sages Are, accordingly, of three types And should be employed at three different times. {.
“Innumerable kings have been specified For Madhyadeśa; the west, The north, the south, and the east
For all the intermediated directions; And also for the outer islands, All divided into four groups. {.
“The kings are said to be innumerable, And so are the mantra practices; The mantra accomplishments, ascribed To innumerable regions, are also innumerable. {.
“When the teachings of the Sage have disappeared, For that particular time, Mañjughoṣa taught, with reference to kings, The mantras intended for suppressing or fostering. {.
“Taught here are also time-specific performances For the sake of play, protection, or magic
The great [benefits of] the mantras; the types of birth of beings; And the names of the kings. {.
“For those intending to do a formal mantra practice, There is a prescribed time and place
When the teachings of the path have disappeared, There are kings foretold who will, As required in these circumstances, teach about The greatness of mantra qualities and the final fruit. {.
“These kings, previously instructed In the two transcendent vehicles, Will establish themselves at that time, during the debased eon, As foretold, there is no doubt
All of these kings are specified For their [respective] regions. {.
“Having renounced the world and adhering firmly To the doctrine of Śākyamuni, They will serve the cause of the instructions And always delight in the mantra teachings. {.
“I will now speak, O divine youth, about those who will come After the best of sages—the one whose supreme vision Is uniquely focused on the world—has departed
Please listen with undivided attention. {.
“At the end of the eon, when the Teacher’s doctrine Has disappeared on earth and the world is corrupt, There will come, there is no doubt, Ascetics involved in affairs of state. {.
“There will be one by the name Mātṛceṭa, One known as Kusuma, One with the initial M , and one with the initial Ku, Exceedingly fond of the Dharma; {.
“Also, one referred to as Nāga With the name of Ratnasambhava, One with the initial G , one called Kumāra, And one with the initial V who will care for the Dharma
{.} “Also, a powerful person with the initial A — An irresistible defender of the Teacher’s teachings
And one known by his initial L, Endowed with virtue and intelligence; {.
And King Buddhapakṣa, during whose reign The doctrine of the Teacher will shine brightly. {.
“There will be a brahmin ascetic with the initial A Who becomes a Buddhist monk— A citizen of the city of Sāketa Who will live eighty years. {.
“In the southern region there will be An ascetic with an initial A Who is a citizen of Kāśī, is intelligent, And will live sixty years. {.
“Also in the southern region there will be A well-known ascetic with the initial Th
This ascetic, accomplished in mantra, Will suppress the doctrines of other systems. {.
“Another eminent renunciant Will be a citizen of the city of lions
This inhabitant of the island of Siṃhala Will be able to tell the ignoble from the noble, {.
“And he will refute the tenets of the tīrthikas And suppress the doctrines of others
These people will come at that terrible time At the end of the eon. {.
“There will be one ascetic with the V initial, One with the L initial, One with the R initial, And also a renunciate monk with the V initial, {.
“Who will be, without a doubt, Wholly devoted to the Teacher’s teachings
During [the reign of] a king called Bālāka, There will be an ascetic with the initial S. {.
“He will build monasteries, ashrams, caityas, Ponds, and wells everywhere
He will make banners and images of the Teacher And construct bridges and ferry crossings. {.} “He will be remembered, there is no doubt, as the one Who was slain with a weapon and ascended to the higher realms
After him there will be one with the initial M, One known by the name beginning with K, {.} “One with the initial N, Sudatta, Suṣeṇa known as Sena, Dattaka, and Dinaka who will refute The doctrines of other systems, {.
“And also a former merchant and a former physician, Both concerned about the welfare of the poor
There will also be an ascetic known by the initial C, And after him one with the initial R. {.
“A Bh -initialed ascetic, one with deep faith, Will be instrumental in producing images of the Teacher
Another ascetic, with the initial M , will also be born, Who is intelligent and has faith. {.
“Various ascetics [such as those] mentioned And innumerable [others] will come at that time
All of them will be known As torchbearers of the Teacher’s instructions. {.
“When the instructions have disappeared And the earth is deprived of their light, These ascetics will make, without a doubt, Beautiful images of the Teacher. {.
“All of them have been prophesied to attain awakening And will certainly become models of attainment
Accordingly, they will be venerated in the world As the terminators of the three states of existence Known for their direct application of mantra methods And for making [others] worthy of praise. {.
“Now I will tell about the brahmins, Disciplined in the Dharma, Who will be involved in affairs of state By directly applying the mantra methods
During that terrible time They will exist all over the world. {.
“There will be an eminent brahmin with the initial V, Wealthy and fully conversant in the Vedas
Who will wander the earth to its farthest limits In order to debate others. {.
“He will delight in controverting other schools As far away as the lands beyond the three oceans
When facing others in debate, He will recite the six-syllable mantra, {.} “Which the divine youth conveyed in song Out of his desire to benefit beings
This famous [mantra] from his extensive manual Is for [helping those] of slow intellect. {.
“There will be Jaya and Sujaya, And after them, the celebrated Śubhamata, Well-born and virtuous, And the good and hard-working Mādhava. {.} “Further, there will be, at that time, Madhu, Sumadhu, Siddha , and Nama
There will be Rāghava of the śūdra caste, And others, of Scythian ancestry. {.
“While debating, all of them will recite The mantra of the divine youth present here
All of them will be honest, Intelligent, and learned
They will be involved in affairs of state Alongside the ministers. {.
“Another brahmin, known by the name Beginning with Vi, Will live in the Flower City
He will accomplish [the mantra of] Krodha
Having experienced poverty and humiliation, He will direct his acts of destruction at kings. {.
“Taught by Mañjughoṣa present here, This [mantra of] Yamāntaka, the Lord of Wrath, Is the tamer of the wicked beings So difficult to tame. {.
“It is for suppressing what is bad And promoting what is good
It can also be used to destroy physical life, But only as an act of kindness to sentient beings. {.
“This foolish young brahmin, however, Stricken with poverty and swayed by anger and greed, Will recite the Krodha [mantra] In order to kill the king. {.
“There will also be another brahmin, Known by the name beginning with S
He will be skilled in the art of mantras, studious, Truthful, and in control of his senses. {.
“A reciter of mantras, He will be known as a very powerful master
He will master the mantras for enthralling, But not for other activities
As the result of enthralling the spirits, He will become very rich. {.
“There will be another well-known brahmin In the country of Mālava, Concerned about the affairs of the Dharma, Whose name will begin with Ś
He will have faith in the teachings And will be an exemplary reciter of mantras on earth. {.
“He will enthrall vetālas, grahas, The evil brahmarākṣasas and rākṣasas, And all the pūtanas, bhūtas, And the various kravyādas. {.
“All animate and inanimate things Without exception will come under his control
All of them will be in his thrall, With benefits for this man marked as twice-born. {.
“There will be another brahmin In the southern region. He will be widely known by the name beginning with V And will be devoted to the teachings of the Teacher. {.
“He will adorn the entire land Between the two oceans With monasteries, ashrams, caityas, And beautiful images of the Teacher. {.
“Another distinguished brahmin, Known by the name beginning with Bh, Wealthy and famous, Will live in the southern region. {.
“This great being, a reciter of mantras, Will be destined to attain the final goal of awakening
In Madhyadeśa, there will be a brahmin Known by the name of Sampūrṇa. {.
“There will also be Vinaya , Suvinaya, And Pūrṇa, the citizen of Mathurā
There will be a royal treasurer with the initial Bh, A worshiper of mantra [deities]. {.
“These brahmins, foretold as Worshipers of the Teacher’s teachings, Will be members of different houses and lineages, Prominent at the beginning, middle, and end. {.
“These and other brahmins will worship Among [other] brahmins in different places
They will belong to different brahmanical orders and lineages And will follow different types of practices
They are foretold as full-fledged ascetics, Ordained as novices and very learned. {.
“The self-realized buddha, the Dharma king Who fulfills the aims of all beings, Is glorified by all the spirits And also by the three gods. {.
“The four great kings Are celebrated in all the worlds
They are Virūḍhaka, Virūpākṣa, Dhṛtarāṣṭra, and the king of the yakṣa s. Śakra is glorified as The long-lived among the gods. {.
“There are the gods of the Suyāma, Sunirmita, and Vaśavartin realms, And the king called Santuṣita Is said to be the supreme lord of the desire realm. {.
“Śakra and the other individually named gods Are, likewise, lords of the desire realm
Endowed with powers and majesty, they share a single nature, Always being one and the same person. {.
“The gods who possess different forms Are described as infinite
The gods above them are all equal, With equal powers and majesty. {.
“Known to be this way, The higher gods are said to be in harmony
There is no overlord among them, As they are all of the same status. {.
“Below, down to the Avīci hell, There is no king to be found
“One should know, Mañjuśrī, divine youth, about the ten advantages obtained in any place where this Dharma treasury of the tathāgatas is written down in the form of a book, read aloud, memorized, or respectfully and sincerely worshiped with various implements such as yak-tail whisks, streamers, parasols, banners, flags, bells, music, garlands, scented oils, incense, or pleasant fragrances
These ten advantages are obtained in any place where this Dharma treasury is revered, reflected upon, or focused upon with an undivided mind
What are these ten? {.
“There will be  no danger in that [place] of military invasions or hunger
 no pestilence caused by Mahāmārī or other dangers from nonhuman beings
 no danger of drought or excessive rains;  no danger of hurricanes, tornadoes, or kravyādas
 no danger from Śakra or any rogues or robbers
 no danger of untimely death or fear caused by King Yama
 no danger from asuras or any gods, nāga s, yakṣa s, or gandharvas
 no danger from mantras, venoms, or poisons
and  no danger of disease, fever, dysentery, indigestion, or other danger to body or limb
One should know that these ten benefits occur wherever this Dharma treasury of the tathāgatas, contained in this great extensive manual, is kept in the form of a book. Let us therefore write it down, read it aloud, worship it, memorize it, and rehearse it. {.
“This Dharma treasury of the tathāgatas is extremely occult, as it depends in every respect on the mantras. It must not be taught to those who have not received the samaya from the master or those who do not understand the samaya
Why is this? This is because it is secret; it is an occult teaching. It is a teaching [arising from] omniscience
No beings should ever reject or take it lightly. {.
“If [those who received it] do not worship [this Dharma treasury] and treat it with respect, they will incur a lot of negativity
One must not disclose it to others
as they could commit negative acts, such as suppressing the secret [practices], killing sentient beings, reporting [you] to the king, shortening lives, or causing other misfortunes. It can only be disclosed to beings who have taken up the secret practice of mantras and keep their samaya secret—to beings who are well established and trained in the study and practice of the Tathāgata’s instructions, who have good knowledge of the meaning of the Dharma, who keep their samaya concerning the sense bases and psychophysical elements, and who live by the Dharma and are thus true to their promises, firm in their observances, have entered the path of good conduct, and are compassionate. It can be disclosed only to them and not to others.” {.
The bodhisattva Mañjuśrī, the divine youth, rose from his seat, draped his robe over one shoulder, placed his right knee on the ground, and asked the Blessed One with folded hands
“What is this Dharma discourse really, O Blessed One? What should I remember it as?
The Blessed One replied: {.
“You should remember it as a basket of bodhisattva teachings, the thundering roar of all the buddhas and bodhisattvas
“You should remember it as a text that contains the marvelous and wondrous Dharma instructions
“You should remember it as the bodhisattvas’ instructions for taking up all the practices of the ‘mantra basket.
“You should remember it as an extensive Mahāyāna sūtra with marvelous instructions
“You should remember it as the root manual of Noble Mañjuśrī
“You should remember it as the instructions that fulfill all the aims of the Dharma. {.
“You are a very powerful bodhisattva Who travels everywhere Throughout every realm where there are Those who practice the Dharma and those who do not. {.
“Do you not see that this profoundly secret teaching Is the best of the best among the sūtra
That treat the subject of the mantra methods, As it removes the dangers related to the place of rebirth? {.
“Do you not see, O valiant one, That this supreme teaching has awakening as its goal
That an esoteric sūtra such as this Is adorned with the meaning that needs to be inferred? {.
“The diverse meanings of the sūtras Are presented here according to the mantra system
There is no other such sūtra in existence, Apart from this extensive manual of rites. {.
“One can obtain kingship, great comforts, The great fortunes of the gods, Prosperity, and fame, Both celestial and human. {.
“One will be able to avoid the eight unfree states, And bring about the eight freedoms
One will become a master of the three vehicles Destined to attain buddhahood. {.
“There is merit in memorizing this sūtra And there are the following advantages
Neither poison nor fire will be able To harm any part of one’s body, {.
“And whatever vetālas, grahas, Pūtanas, mātṛs, thieves, Rākṣasas, or piśācas there are, {.} “They will not be able to harm Someone who recites this sūtra, Memorizes it, or worships it, again and again, With offerings of various kinds. {.
One will then obtain The following advantages: {.} “If one is unwell, one will be freed from disease
If one experiences suffering, one will become happy
If one is poor, one will obtain wealth
If one is in bondage, one will be freed. {.
“One who has fallen into the suffering of saṃsāra With its five realms of rebirth Will attain the unwavering state Of well-being, happiness, and nirvāṇa. {.
“One will realize the awakening of a pratyeka­buddha Or attain the state of a śrāvaka
If one reads this sūtra aloud, One will attain buddhahood. {.
“The merit of reciting this sūtra is the same as All the merit that one would obtain through Worshiping the victorious ones, said to be As uncountable as the sand grains in the Gaṅgā. {.
“If one were to continually worship the names Of the buddhas as numerous as the atoms In the tens of millions of inconceivable [buddha]fields, However many there are in this world; {.
“If one were to offer to these buddhas various types Of food, drink, invigorating tonics, And various seats and beds, Giving them continually to all of them
“And if one were to offer them various garments, Scented powders, robes, ornaments, Parasols, shoes, cloth, Fragrances, garlands, unguents, {.} “And various types of incense, With lamps all around, The merit thus obtained would be the same As the merit obtained by memorizing and reciting this teaching. {.
“However many pratyeka­buddhas there are In this world, or śrāvakas of great majesty, Or bodhisattvas, great beings Established on the tenth level, {.
“The merit that one would obtain Through worshiping them Would be the same as the merit of someone Who holds [this sūtra] volume in their hand. {.
“However many beings are said to dwell In the world with its spheres, Who are described as being free From the fever [of the afflictions], {.
“The merit that one would obtain Through worshiping them sincerely, again and again, Would be the same that a wise person would obtain Through worshiping this supreme teaching. {.
“Not even the most eminent, jewel-like victors Can obtain the same merit in tens of millions of eons That one can obtain through worshiping This finest Dharma treasury of the lords of the world. {.
“If one recites and memorizes the mantras Taught by Mañjughoṣa in this manual, This supreme teaching will become A precious wish-fulfilling jewel. {.
“It will become a cow of plenty for the reciter, And a source of great enjoyment and wealth
If someone with an indefatigable mind Accomplishes these mantras here on earth, {.
“They will bring results, as taught by the Sage, With the inferred meaning becoming the true meaning. If one performs the rites at the right time, One will become a vidyādhara on earth. {.
“All the places, it is said, will be replete for him With precious good fortune
His illustrious course of rebirths will be fruitful, And his actions will be praised by the good. {.
“Should a king memorize a single mantra From this excellent manual, He will obtain a royal fortune with all its benefits, And a long and prosperous life. {.
“Such a distinguished king will obtain A life of various pleasurable pursuits
He will not be harmed by weapons or poisons, Whether from animate or inanimate sources, {.
“Or the effects of inimical magical vidyā s, Such as the mantras employed in the vetāla practices
Corrupt practitioners who engage in hostile rites Here on earth will not be able to harm him. {.
“He will not be in any danger of fire. Malevolent grahas or other such beings Will not assail his body, regardless of Whether he is a king or an ordinary person. {.
“The same applies to any person who memorizes And recites this excellent sūtra of great importance
Any king who, before a battle, Places it upon his head, {.} “So that it forms a parasol above it, And repeatedly pays homage to it
Will not be killed by lowly men With any of their various weapons. {.
“If he sends into battle An effigy of the princely youth, Seated on a peacock seat And mounted on the back of an elephant, {.
“The enemies, seeing the divine youth In his youthful form Adorned with ornaments, Will all become mutually hostile and retreat. {.
“If this [effigy], made of gold or silver, Is fitted onto a banner handle, Raised up on top of banners and flags, Well positioned and well set, {.
“And taken to a battlefield Swarming with enemies, Their various weapons raised At the commencement of fighting, {.
“There once was a great kṣatriya king, Who lived and reigned on earth. He had faith, was free from indecision or doubts, And was a fond patron of the Dharma. {.} “Having generated faith in the Sugata, With a mind filled with compassion And eager to find the esoteric meaning, He undertook to perform the rituals taught here. {.
“The victors who abide in the sphere of phenomena Taught these [rituals] as part of their doctrine. They taught them in this manual of rites that employ mantras And fit into the mantra system taught here on earth. {.} “The innumerable victors of the past Who dwell in the sphere of phenomena Taught this Dharma treasury On earth to human beings. {.
“In times past, while a dreadful war Was being waged between the gods and the asuras
The army of [Indra] Was destroyed by its enemies. {.
“Alone on the earth, dispirited, Without a chariot, He approached, at that time, Kāśyapa, The best of sages and the supreme Victor. {.
“ ‘What can I do?’ Were the words uttered by the husband of Śacī
‘I have been defeated by the cruel asuras And now seek refuge here with you.’ {.
“Having said this, the god of bounty Who has performed one hundred sacrifices Bowed to the distinguished sage, Touching his feet with the top of his head, {.
“And then the thousand-eyed Kauśika Sat down as before
The distinguished sage, brahmin Kāśyapa, Thus addressed, {.
“Replied in a voice as sweet As the song of a cuckoo bird
‘In the past, the supreme victors praised in songs The divine youth who is the source of everything. {.
“ ‘He is the great being Mañjuśrī, Difficult to meet, endowed with one hundred thousand powers, And said to abide in the ultimate reality. He guides beings to the deep meaning. {.
“ ‘You should recollect him now, O lord of gods, As one who shows the Dharma to beings, Himself being without conceptual elaboration, Mental disposition, independent existence, or location.’ {.
“Being thus caused by Kāśyapa to be recollected, And then recollected by Indra as one who abides in reality, Precisely at that moment, The omnifarious divine youth Arrived at the place where Blessed Kāśyapa And Maghavan, the lord of gods, were. {.
“After arriving, the bodhisattva Mañjuśrī Saluted the supreme Victor
Having bowed to all the eminent victors And to Kāśyapa of great splendor, He pronounced the following mantra After first obtaining the sage’s consent: {.
“ ‘Homage to all the buddhas and bodhisattvas who are perfect teachers! “ ‘ Oṁ , kill, kill all those that pose danger! Destroy and annihilate them! Make them afraid! Crush, chop, and break them! Burn them, burn! Huṁ huṁ, phaṭ phaṭ, svāhā! ’ {.
“As soon as this mantra was pronounced by the great being, the divine youth Mañjuśrī, the earth with its mountains and oceans, up to its farthest reaches, shook in six different ways, and so did all the infinite buddhafields and world spheres up to their farthest limits
All the blessed buddhas empowered the words of the mantra. {.
“Śakra, the lord of gods, his fear gone and body hair bristling, struck with amazement and wonder, his eyes wide open, rose from his seat, bowed down to the feet of the Blessed One, and circumambulated him clockwise three times
Then, turning to and looking at the divine youth Mañjuśrī, he grasped and kept in his mind the words of the mantra
He mounted his chariot and rode to where all the asuras were
Confronted by him in their subterranean paradise, in their capital city that the ocean rests upon, they all attacked
However, seeing the lord of gods blazing like fire, the asuras became smitten and dazed in their minds, and their armies were struck with fear. They now grew weak and despondent, their haughty expressions changed, and they lost their weapons. They turned back and retreated to their own abodes. {.
“Śakra, the lord of gods, then addressed the gods in the realm of the Thirty-Three
“ ‘Do not be afraid, friends, do not be afraid! We have defeated the asuras through the power of the Buddha
Now let us go home. Come, gentlemen! Having returned to your fine houses and abodes, each of you to his own, you can play, rejoice, and move around freely.’ “And so the gods, uplifted in their minds, turned around and went to their own abodes. {.
“Śakra, the lord of gods, thought, ‘If I make an effigy in the form of the divine youth and mount it atop a banner, there will be no danger for me from the asuras.
The lord of gods, with his great might, procured then a precious gem called Shining with the Inner Light, fashioned from it a figure in the form of the divine youth, firmly fixed it on top of a banner, and placed it in Sudharmā, the assembly hall of the gods, at the top of the palace in the middle of his great city Sudarśana. {.
“From then on, the asuras, headed by Prahlāda and Vemacitri, stayed in their subterranean paradise. They did not travel upward, nor did they attack the gods. They were unable to work miracles or confront anyone in battle
This will last, in human reckoning, many hundreds of thousands of billions of years. Thus, there will now be no danger from the asuras. {.
“This celebrated [Dharma treatise] is thus a boon of infinite qualities; it promotes long life and good health, as taught by the blessed buddhas and the great beings, the bodhisattvas in the past
It is full of excellent qualities and brings infinite benefits, without beginning and without end. {.
“Anyone who contradicts this Dharma treatise, doubts it, or thoughtlessly steps over it will accumulate boundless nonvirtue. They will fall into one of the great hells or suffer the tribulations of birth in the animal realm or the Yama realm of the pretas
Those who claim that this Dharma treatise is not the word of the Buddha and that the mantras and the remedies in it do not come from the bodhisattvas, who deny the greatness of the bodhisattvas and their power to work miracles, who throw away or abandon this Dharma treatise claiming that it was originally taught by dishonorable people, they will proceed to the lower states of existence where they will be unable to understand this Dharma treatise or even hear it. When they depart from that state, they will have accumulated a great deal of nonvirtue, so it is said. {.
“Foolish people who reject This excellent teaching Taught in song by the eminent sages And the sagacious sons of the victors {.} “Will, because of this, go to hell, With its subdivisions lying above or horizontally, Such as Kālasūtra , Sañjīva, Kṣuradhārā, Gūthamṛttikā, {.} “Kuṇapa, Kṣāranadī, Where they will be seized in Jvaradhārā, The terrible Asipattra forest, Avava, Hahava, {.} “Or the hell for evildoers, Renowned in the world as Aṭaṭa
Those who bring harm upon the Dharma Will go to one of these hells. {.} “The terrible hell called Avīci Is well known in the world As a walled-in place for reviled evildoers, Who make up its population. {.
“People who destroy this teaching Will be roasted there
People who are always mindless will visit All of the hells as deep down as Avīci. {.
“They will experience death and subsequent rebirth Throughout the infinite hell realms
Those who reject this extensive sūtra That is the sum total of the Dharma {.
“Become reviled in the world And fall into the hells that end in Avīci, Completely deprived of their own will. {.
“This sūtra called the ‘Manual of Rites’ Is adorned with the knowledge of mantras
Through hundreds of wonderful accomplishments, It lays bare the ultimate reality, {.
“Which is experienced in meditation without support And constitutes the body of the sphere of phenomena
This extensive manual of rites With its detailed chapters {.} “Was skillfully laid down by Mañjughoṣa And duly worshiped by Śrīmati
Many original rites of Mañjuśrī Are presented here in full. {.
“This manual is free from both extreme views, Those of eternalism and of nihilism
It explains the stages in the right order And constitutes a collective body of mantras. {.
“It clearly explains Fire, wind, and space as empty
One who rejects this manual is always reborn, Going from one low birth to another. {.
“As the supreme Victor, I accumulated infinite merit In the course of many long eons, And attained awakening. {.
“I subsequently taught this root manual To fulfill the aims of the mantra system
By being an auspicious means of purification that destroys negativity, This manual wards off the dangers associated with the places of rebirth. {.
“It has been presented in detailed chapters That adorn this sūtra of definitive meaning
It includes the descriptions of the great qualities of kings Explained according to their relevant period and place. {.
“This sacred Dharma of the victors’ sons Was taught by the seventh sage, The best among the victors Who have taken human birth on earth. {.
“It was taught in the form of this extensive manual That produces splendor and good fortune
It is described as an extensive volume with a good foundation And is revered as part of the mantra system. {.
“Anyone on earth who rejects This excellent, important sūtra, This Dharma treasury endowed with power by the victors, Will fall, after death, into Avīci, the worst of hells
For many great eons, as described In different works. {.
“During his life as a human, Whenever this happens to be, He will be poor, diseased, and dumb
He will be born as a mleccha, Will be reviled in the world, And will contract leprosy. {.
“He will smell bad and inspire disgust
Blind and missing limbs, He will have a terribly unattractive form, Always be dirty, and look, here on earth, like a preta. {.
“He will be poorly clothed, depressed, With ugly nails, and generally detestable
He will be eaten by parasites And will be covered by sores and blisters. {.
“Stinking and utterly revolting, He will have no partner for conversation But will walk around absentmindedly, Becoming ever more feebleminded. {.
The divine youth Mañjuśrī, the bodhisattva great being, now rose from his seat, draped his upper robe over his shoulder, placed his right knee on the ground, folded his hands, and, with wide open and unblinking eyes, knowing that all the gods who inhabit the Pure Abode and many orders of beings had assembled in order to hear the Dharma, said to Blessed Śākyamuni: {.} “It is wonderful, O Blessed One, that you have presented this Dharma treatise so eloquently. In the future time, O Blessed One, it will come to pass that beings will be overcome by dangerous greed, their minds will be dominated by the five degenerations, they will lack faith, and they will be deceitful, unruly, and undisciplined
They will not believe in the greatness of the of the art of mantras, nor will they appreciate the necessity to observe the restrictions regarding the time and the place of worship. Nor will they believe in the elaborate rituals with their injunctions pertaining to the mantra conduct, homa offerings, or mantra recitation
Thinking that this is not the Buddha’s teaching, they will reject it
They will develop mental anguish and die. They will thus experience intense suffering and feel sharp and acute pain. They will end up in the great hells
When beings suffer like this, O Blessed One, how can this be remedied
The lord buddhas are very compassionate, after all.” {.
The blessed Śākyamuni touched Mañjuśrī, the divine youth, on the head, and said, “Good it is, good indeed, that you, Mañjuśrī, are concerned about the welfare and the interests of all beings, and it is also good that you, Mañjuśrī, ask the Tathāgata about it
Listen well, then, and duly reflect upon what I will now tell you for the benefit, welfare, and happiness of all beings and to act kindly toward the world. There is, O divine youth, in your root manual with its detailed chapters, a most secret vidyārāja that should be remembered at the time of death by men and gods who strongly desire to take the final refuge in the supreme body of the dharmadhātu, thus taking the path to awakening that subsumes all mantra practices
So what is this vidyā? {.
“Homage to all the worthy tathāgatas, the fully realized buddhas! “ Oṁ , the omnifarious form of the divine youth, come, come! Quick, quick! Bhrūṃ bhrūṃ, hūṁ hūṁ! O victorious Victor! Splendorous Mañjuśrī! Deliver me from all suffering! Phaṭ phaṭ ! Pacify, pacify! You who arise from and are the source of immortality, destroy my negativity, svāhā! {.
“This, Mañjuśrī, is your ultimate heart essence that makes everything peaceful, removes all negativity, and releases from all suffering. It brings long life, good health, vigor, supreme well-being, and increases the powers of speech. It also stirs up the goodness in all the vidyā king s.” As soon as the blessed Buddha Śākyamuni pronounced this mantra, this great earth with all its mountains, oceans, and animate and inanimate things, up to its farthest reaches, shook in six different ways, and the sufferings of all the beings of the different classes—the pretas, the animals, and all the beings in the worlds of Yama —completely ceased. {.
“This king of mantras, Mañjuśrī, should be kept in mind, so that, at that time, there will be no thought of giving up the sacred Dharma, the evil māras will not have any opportunity to cause harm, and all the vighnas and vināyakas will run away
“The blessed buddhas will know my thoughts, if I should reflect, ‘What am I capable of? Will I accept or reject the inconceivable Dharma of the realization of the blessed buddhas?’ ” {.
This concludes the detailed chapter about the consequences of praising or blaming [this Dharma manual], fifty-fourth in “The Root Manual of Noble Mañjuśrī,” an extensive Mahāyāna sūtra that forms a garland-like basket of bodhisattva teachings
When the Blessed One had finished teaching, the monks, the bodhisattvas, their retinues, and billions of other beings present above the Pure Abode such as gods, nāga s, yakṣa s, gandharvas, asuras, garuḍas, kinnaras, mahoragas, siddha s, and vidyādharas; as well as many prominent ṛṣis and the great bodhisattva beings including the divine youth Mañjuśrī, Avalokiteśvara, Maitreya, Mahā­sthāna­prāpta, Vajrapāṇi, and so forth; the blessed buddhas with the retinues of śrāvakas and pratyeka­buddhas who dwell in innumerable world systems and in the infinite sphere of phenomena; and the inconceivable buddhas dwelling in the sky-like nature and the bodhisattva great beings, were all very pleased and praised the Blessed One’s teaching
This concludes “The Root Manual of Noble Mañjuśrī,” presented as it was passed down
By order of the glorious ruler and renunciant king Jangchub O, this text was translated, edited, and finalized by the great Indian scholar and spiritual teacher Kumārakalaśa and the translator Lotsawa and monk Śākya Lodrö