homage to Mañjughoṣa
The teacher of living beings, Mañjuvajra
Taught this tantra for the sake of the world
The best and foremost among speakers
This very deity, in the form of the mantra
Bounteously grants every accomplishment
On him indeed should the follower of Mantra meditate
A follower of Mantra who has a pure body
Once the small accomplishment has been obtained
Will make his body a fiel
In which the great accomplishment will aris
And gradually to him will come The attainment of bhūmis and so forth
Like a wish-fulfilling gem, this follower of Mantra Will always act for the benefit of beings
With that in mind, overcome with compassion
When asked by Vajradhara and others
Mañjuvajra gave, for the sake of the world, A mantra collection of the accomplished ones
Oṁ, kālumelu kālumelu, stop the hailstorm and snowfall, stop, stop! Svāhā
This king of mantras, when correctly recited, will stop a hailstorm
Merely to remember it, using incanted ashes, can stop snow falling, or make it fall wherever one wishes
In the same way, one can also stop lightning, hurricanes, thunderbolt strikes, etc
Oṁ, garuḍa! Swan! Hey, hey! Move, move! Svāhā
The mere thought of this king of mantras will stop a hailstorm
By inscribing it on a kettle drum with chalk an
chanting over the drumstick, one can then use the sound of the drum to stop a hailstorm
The same can be done with the sound of a conch, et
Oṁ, hey, hey! Remain, remain! Bind, bind! Hold, hold! Restrain such-and-such, restrain! O Ūrṇāmaṇi, svāhā
This king of mantras, when recited , times according to the procedure of the preliminary practice, will bring success
By merely remembering this mantra one will be able to stop lightning, wind, thunderbolt strikes, hail, snow, and so forth
By using incanted ashes and mustard seeds
One will also stop torrential rain
one will bind the snouts of mice, the stylets of mosquitoes, etc
This will also stop attacks on a garden or field by birds, worms, locusts, and other pests
One should inscribe this mantra on a rag that has been discarded in a charnel ground, together with the name of a pregnant woman, enclose it in beeswax
place it in a charnel ground in a pot, seal it
and bury it. That will stop the woman from losing her fetus
Digging it up again, rinsing it with milk, and floating it on water will bring alleviation of discomfort
One should write this mantra on birchbark or cloth with turmeric or yellow orpiment
One should make an effigy using clay from an anthill, and place the mantra, enclosed in beeswax, in the effigy’s heart
One should fill its mouth with ash and bury it
In case of a dispute, one will be able to paralyze the mouth of one’s opponent
Also, in case of a lawsuit, one should incant the tongue of the effigy seven times and pierce it with seven thorns. That will bind the opponent’s mouth
One should write this mantra on a clay pot with chalk, fill the pot with ashes
seal it, and bury it—that will paralyze the mouths of slanderers
With clay wiped off the hand of a potter
When this mantra is written with saffron and worn on one’s neck or arm, one will be able to stop the enemy’s weapons in battle
one should make an effigy of a ram, and place in its heart this mantra inscribed on birchbark with turmeric or yellow orpiment, tied up with a yellow string, and enclosed in beeswax. That will put an end to their anger and paralyze their mouths
This king of mantras, placed at the feet of an effigy of Gaṇapati made of clay from an anthill an
buried at a crossroads,  will stop all coming and going. It will interrupt all daily activities
When this king of mantras, written on birchbark or cloth and enclosed in beeswax, is put in the Gaṇapati’s abdomen an
placed in a new jar filled with cool water, it will stop all daily activities
While traveling, one will stop thieves and the like by tying a knot on the border of one’s upper garment and recalling the mantra
In a forest, one will stop animals with horns, or those with fangs
By throwing a lump of clay, incanted with this mantra seven times, into water
one will bind the teeth of water animals
One should write this mantra on a rag from a charnel ground, in combination with the names of the commanders of an opposing army, in the center of a double vajra
Outside the double vajra, one should write eight laṁ syllables
and around the outside of these, one should draw a double maṇḍala of Indra
The mantra should then be placed in the abdomen of a Gaṇapati made of beeswax who is adorned with the double vajra
When it is buried next to an opposing army, it will stop that army
One should place this mantra, enclosed at both ends by a syllable oṁ flanked by two ṭha syllables
adorned by eight laṁ syllables, covered with a maṇḍala of Indra, and embellished with a double vajra
in the abdomen of the effigy of Gaṇapati made of clay from an anthill
One should then place it in a cremation urn and bury this urn in a cemetery
That will stop an opposing army
If a city is on fire
facing the fire, throw on seven double handfuls of water, having first incanted it with the mantra
One will then be able to protect any house one wishes
By tying ashes to one’s neck, one will put an end to vomiting
One should pronounce the mantra while firmly pressing the tip of one’s little finger; that will stop hiccups
With incanted ash one can cure blindness
When afflicted with blistering leprosy, one should draw a cirikā on a piece of cloth
Placed at any doorstep, it will prevent diseases such as blistering leprosy in that house
Outside a village one should offer a great bali of fish, meat, alcohol, sour gruel, etc
In the center of the village, one should prepare a fire pit for the rite of pacifying, with five types of sacrificial wood and five types of grain smeared with ghee, and perform a homa offering
This will stop all death-causing demons and accidents
A village, etc., can be protected from being handed over to another owner by simply reciting the mantra
By reciting the mantra continuously, one will become unassailable by gods, demi-gods, humans, and nāgas
This king of mantras emerged from the ūrṇā hair between the eyebrows of the venerable lord Buddha at the time of his awakening in order to conquer the four māras
It is therefore called the jewel of the ūrṇā
To drive away snakes one should scatter gravel that has been incanted
or write the mantra on the wall of a house with incanted chalk
Alternatively, one should engrave the mantra with a chisel on a stone tablet and bury it
That will bind the teeth of wild animals and poisonous snakes in a house, village, or town for  as long as one desires
One can break the spell by taking the splinters out
This mantra accomplishes all endeavors even when it has not been fully mastered
To arrest the fangs of all creatures that bite, One should incant gravel, etc., and scatter it
All mantras should be written, together with the name of the intended person, in the center of the double vajra surrounded by a maṇḍala of Indra
By hiding eight splinters from a funeral pyre, incanted seven times, above an entrance door
one will interrupt the livelihood of all who live there
Elu velu śila pa ḍa i jahaṃ pelu āgāsapantharate ha attaṃdhari khili mo ḍi them bhi jakāre jā hi ṭhakāre hi ṭhaḥ ṭhaḥ ṭhaḥ svāhā
This king of mantras accomplishes all the previously mentioned acts even if it is not fully mastered
Moreover, it will accomplish all other tasks that may be desired by the mantrin
Making a homa offering of salt and black mustard, or a chaff hom
will certainly put an opposing army to flight
This king of mantras will remove all fear in all those who constantly recite it, even before it is fully mastered
one will confuse all of one’s adversaries and appease their anger
If one is imprisoned, constant recitation of it will set one free
It has arisen; destroy it, destroy! Jvālājihvā, destroy it, destroy! Wherever it has arisen—destroy it, destroy—there you should go—destroy it, destroy! Svāhā
This king of mantras brings peace to all those afflicted by the scourge of quarrels and disputes, even when recited just once
Performing a chaff homa will pacify everything
By reciting this mantra over whatever flowers one may find an
letting them float on water, one will surely pacify all and gain victory
If a city is on fire, one should stand facing the blaze
incant seven double-handfuls of water and throw them into the fire
Thus one will be able to protect any house one wishes by keeping it safe from the flames
By offering a chaff homa one will pacify epidemics among bipeds and quadrupeds
Oṁ, O lotus-eyed Padmā! You with the beauty of a lotus! Flicker, flicker, flicker
Having incanted some ash with this mantra, one should apply it to the eyes, making a dressing with it
by wiping the eyes, one will remove blindness
By gazing at an angry person with an eye incanted seven times, one will appease him
To have everybody’s adoration, one should rinse one’s face with water incanted seven times
By writing this mantra, interspersed with the beneficiary’s name, on a wall with chalk, one will cure all eye diseases
In a place where there are no people, one should one-pointedly incant one’s eyes seven times and stand with a one-pointedly focused mind
In the case of a man, if the left eye throbs
it foretells the successful accomplishment of a task according to his wishes
If the right eye throbs, it announces something bad
Oṁ, Mocanī, release! O Mokṣaṇī, set free! O Jīvaṃvaradā, svāhā
When a pregnant woman’s birth canal is anointed with incanted sesame oil, she will give birth with ease
Facing a bound person
one should throw seven double-handfuls of incanted water toward him in the three periods of the day
The bound person will then become free from his bondage
One should write this mantra with saffron or bovine orpiment on birchbark
and tie it to the head of someone who is bound; it will release him from bondage
Oṁ, O thousand-armed one called Grey Monkey, please release such-and-such from bondage! Svāhā
Having incanted a piece of chalk, one should repeatedly write this mantra on the ground an
rub it out in the opposite direction. Then a bound person will be freed from bondage
Alternatively, one should write the mantra and the person’s name on a slip of birchbark an
wear it on one’s head. Then a bound person will be freed from bondage
Oṁ, Tāraṇī, liberate! Mocanī, release! Mokṣaṇī, set free! Jivaṃvaradā, svāhā
This king of mantras, correctly recited, will accomplish all actions
One should anoint a pregnant woman’s birth canal with sesame oil incanted seven times. Then she will give birth with ease
after drinking a handful of water incanted seven times
A pregnant woman will also give birth easil
By reciting the mantra continuously, one will free oneself and others from bondage
Wearing a leaf with the mantra on one’s neck or arm will release one from bondage
Oṁ, Tārā, powerful Tārā, please liberate! O Jivaṃvaradā, svāhā
This king of mantras accomplishes all previously mentioned actions
One should write this mantra, interwoven with the beneficiary’s name, with saffron on a piece of birchbark, surround it with beeswax
place it inside a new jar filled with scented water
and worship it in the three periods of the day with offerings of fragrant flowers and so forth
will be victorious in all quarrels and disputes
The person whose name has been interwoven with the mantr
The crow in a thicket of palma christi Roosting on the bank of Ganges— The messenger—may he drink water! May the pregnant woman be delivered of her child
One should give the messenger who has arrived a drink of three handfuls of water incanted with this mantra seven times
Then the pregnant woman will give birth with ease
Oṁ, Amaraṇī! Svāhā to Jīvantī
This king of mantras, duly recited, can accomplish all endeavors
fter water incanted with it has been drunk, blisters will not appear
rub it into a wound caused by a venomous spider, a monkey, or skin eruptions
One should incant turmeric, yellow myrobalan, costus, etc., an
Then one will become well
At the onset of any type of illness, one will become well by tying a mantra knot
A person who is about to die will, by reciting the mantra continuously, live one hundred years
By offering a homa of [incanted] sesame and ghee, one will pacify all ailments
By drinking an herbal remedy incanted with this mantra
one will become free from all diseases
One should besmear an ailing body part with [incanted] butter, clarified one hundred times
If one has a headache, one should incant sesame oil and rub it onto one’s head
One will become well
One should make a dressing of [incanted] water over a festering wound and it will heal
In the case of enlargement of the spleen, one should split an eggplant with an [incanted] machete
This will make the enlargement disappear
One should bring together a root of the five-leaved chaste tree, a root of the margosa tree, and a peacock’s feather
and incant them one hundred and eight times and add incense
This will cure fevers—a one-, two-, three-, or four-day fever, etc
It will also chase away ghosts, spirits of the deceased, ghouls, gods, and demons
A woman whose child has died can bring that child back to life by bathing it from a jar incanted with the mantra one hundred and eight times
A woman who carries this mantra, written on birchbark, on her waist or arm will have her fetus protected
When one recalls this mantra in battle, one will meet with victory. By using the mantra for cleansing one will remove all diseases
Oṁ, Pādacalanā, svāhā
This king of mantras, when fully mastered, will accomplish all endeavors after the prescribed preliminary practice
When one is in danger of developing the blisters of leprosy, one should drink water incanted with it and the leprosy will not appear
If this mantra is written on a leaf and placed by the door, the leprosy will not come
In all dangers, a homa oblation of sesame mixed with ghee will afford great protection
One should incant a crow’s wing, holding it in one’s hand
Throwing it onto the roof of any house will then drive out its owner
Oṁ, demoness Parṇaśabarī! Remover of all misfortunes, svāhā
A homa offering, mantra recitation
a mantra knot, a drink of incanted water, or cleansing with incanted water will remove all diseases
One should write the mantra with turmeric on birchbark and wear it on one’s arm or neck
Thus one will obtain succes
This great mantra removes all misfortunes that afflict bipeds and quadrupeds and accomplishes all endeavors, even when it has not been fully mastered
One will be cured even of the quartan fever and other recurring fevers
One will be rid of the danger of rākṣasas, etc
One will be victorious in quarrels and disputes
One will become invisible to tigers, alligators, mahoragas, thieves, etc
By reciting it non-stop, one will be adored by everyone
Oṁ, now you are the third. Stabilize the vision of such-and-such a person! Ṭhaḥ ṭhaḥ! Svāhā
On whichever lunar day one’s sight deteriorates
the name of that day should be written with chalk on a wall or a tablet
It should be enclosed three times with three ṭhaḥ syllables
Oṁ Caṇḍa­mahā­roṣaṇa, hūṁ phaṭ
This king of mantras, pronounced once, burns all evil
one should hang it by the door.  This will protect newborn babies
Having written this mantra with chalk on a platter
One should make a beeswax effigy, four fingers long, and insert this mantra, written along with the name of the person targeted, into its heart
If one pierces its mouth with a thorn the opponent’s mouth will be nailed
If one pierces its feet, one will stop him moving
If one pierces its heart, it will quell his anger
Whichever body parts one seizes and pierces with a splinter of human shinbone or an iron nail, his equivalent body parts will decay
If one buries the effigy under an enemy’s door, one will drive him out
One can also drive an enemy out by throwing incanted ashes from a charnel ground on the lintel of his door
Incanting one’s sword will bring victory if one goes into battle
To fulfil any need need
one should offer a bali, and that need will be fulfilled
Whatever the follower of Mantrayāna desires, whether wholesome or unwholesome, he will accomplish it all merely by reciting the mantra
Oṁ, flow into the kāśa grass, flow into the kuśa grass, flow into an empty house! Flow for me as you flow for the possessor of the vajra! Svāhā
For conjunctivitis, relief will come after wiping the eyes
Oṁ, Jambhā, Mohā! You who make one heart turn toward another heart! Hūṁ phaṭ! Svāhā
y rinsing one’s face with water incanted seven times with this king of mantras early in the morning before crows start to caw
one will be adored by everyone
When the moon is in the asterism of Puṣya, one should take some lampblack with a garland of white lotuses and cow’s ghe
and incant it  times
Anyone whose eyes have been anointed with this substance will steal the hearts of all wanton women
One should blend sandalwood with the root of adhaḥpuṣpik
When the mantra is incanted  times
and make a tika with this substance
a capable practitioner will be able to appease others’ anger
and will be victorious in disputes and quarrels
One who recites the mantra continuously according to the ritual will be able to make a city tremble
Oṁ, Stambhanī, immobilize! Jambhanī, destroy! Mohanī, delude! Rakṣaṇī, protect me! Varadā, Siddhalocanā, svāhā
This heart mantra of Locanā will remove all fear
This was the first chapter in the Great Sovereign Tantra of Siddhaikavīra
One should explain this king of tantra
To a disciple who is an awakened Buddhist, Who has many good qualities
Who is devoted to his teacher, and who is skilled
Oṁ, homage to the god Vimalacandra
Oṁ, run, run! Move, move! Go, go! Become like Mount Meru, become! Homage to the Kailāsakūṭa­putra! Svāhā
Early in the morning, in a clean place, one should draw a maṇḍala, set up a jar, an
make generous offerings to the god Vimalacandra
One should incant the mirror an
a boy or girl who is well washed, dressed in very clean clothes
anointed with white sandalwood paste and wearing a necklace of sweet-smelling flowers
and uncorrupted by “villagers’ dharma.
will reveal without error what should be done as regards the intended task
In the evening, one should wipe the top surface of the maṇḍala disc an
make generous offerings to the god, lord Vimalacandra
Having made an offering  times, one should go to sleep without speaking
The beneficial and harmful results of the task one has in mind will be revealed
To those who recite the mantra continuously, the events taking place in the three worlds will be revealed
Oṁ, Śravaṇa­piśācī, Muṇḍā, svāhā
If one stands under a belleric myrobalan tree or under a banyan tree an
silently recites the mantra , times, one will attain success
recount all that is happening in the three worlds
Alternatively, bathed and dressed in clean clothes
one should recite it , times in a secluded place. Then one will attain success
At night, one should incant costus root  times. Then, having anointed one’s face and feet with it
It will then be revealed in one’s sleep what will be beneficial and what will not
Oṁ, homage to the seven koṭis of perfectly awakened buddhas! Just as here follows, Oṁ, Calā, Culā, Cundā, Mahāvidyā, Satyavādinī, Varadā, speak, speak! Svāhā
One who recites the mantra silently, after washing his face with water incanted  times
will perceive in his sleep what is beneficial and what is not
Oṁ, Mucilī, svāhā! Mohanī, svāhā! Dantilī, svāhā
This mantra can be mastered by reciting it , times
One should make generous offerings to the blessed noble lord Avalokiteśvara
wash one’s face with water incanted  times, and recite the mantra
having set one’s mind on the task to be accomplished. If one goes to sleep without speaking
one will behold the lord as one’s own body an
learn what will be beneficial and what will not
Oṁ, Prajvala! Hūṁ, phaṭ
This mantra is the heart essence of Lord Lokanātha. One will attain success by reciting it one million times
If one follows here the same ritual described for the previous mantra, it will be revealed in one’s dreams what is beneficial and what is not
Oṁ, homage to the seven buddhas whose teachings are inviolable! As here follows: Oṁ, show yourself in the form of the Youthful One, show! Manifest your power! Send me a dream to reveal the way things are! Hūṁ, hūṁ! Phaṭ, phaṭ! Svāhā
One should make offerings, according to one’s ability, in front of a painting or a statue of venerable Mañjuśrī, or by a memorial that contains his body relics
If one recites the mantra seven hundred times
one will oneself behold the lord in a dream and show him to others, too
Oṁ, Karṇapiśācī, whisper into my ear! Hūṁ phaṭ
Beneath a tree inhabited by piśācas
one should observe silence and sit absorbed in the samādhi of conquering the three worlds
One should recite the mantra in the three periods of the day
On the first day Karṇapiśācī will give a sign. Later, she will come, and one will attain success
she will recount all that is happening in the three worlds
After twenty-one days, one will succeed even in killing Brahmā
Oṁ, the four-armed and six-faced one! You with a contorted face! Please summon Karṇapiśācī! Hūṁ phaṭ
One should recite [this mantra] in a charnel ground in front of a painting of Yamāntaka
After twenty-one days, Karṇapiśācī will be in one’s control
Oṁ, Buddha! Curu, curu on the path! Svāhā
In a memorial containing his relics, or in front of the venerable Buddha, one should recite the mantra , times as preliminary practice
Later, one should make offerings according to one’s ability
At bedtime, one should recite the mantra eight hundred times
“What was my past existence, and what will my future existence be?
One should go to sleep with the following question in one’s mind
In one’s sleep, one will perceive one’s past and future births, there is no doubt
If one is to die within six months
then in one’s dream one will not be able to see one’s own head or those of others
Similarly, a boy or a girl whom one sees in an incanted mirror with his or her head invisibl
will die within six months
One should make an unguent from malachite and the root of white agastya tree
incant it  times, and smear it on one’s eyes
One will distinctly see without heads all those who are going to die within six months, whether humans or animals
Oṁ, Svapnavilokinī! Siddhalocanā! Interpret my dream for me! Svāhā
This king of mantras works with all the methods previously described
Oṁ, Aditi, give me such-and-such a girl! Please give! Svāhā
If one recites this mantra surrounded by water, one will be given the girl one has in mind
One should recite the mantra , times for each syllable
By offering a homa of priyaṅgu flowers or palāśa flowers one will obtain great splendor
If one recites this mantra at night while performing a homa using the wood of a milk tree, one will obtain any village for which one performs the homa and recitation
By performing , homa rituals with lotuses or bilva fruits
one born into a royal family will obtain the kingdom
Others will obtain great splendor
When one offers , homa rituals with any type of flowers
one will obtain inexhaustible wealth
Oṁ, Jayā, Vijayā, Ajitā, Aparājitā, svāhā
Reciting this king of the heart mantras of the four sisters , times
following the same procedures as described previously, will accomplish all the rituals described previously
Oṁ, svāhā to Megholka
By offering a homa with flowers of the palāśa tree , times, using, as an option, firewood from the same tree
one will obtain , pieces of gold
One who wishes for a girl will soon obtain the one he desires
Oṁ, Kamalavikāsinī, Kamalā, Mahālakṣmī, give me the kingdom! You who grant boons, svāhā
This mantra is the essence of Mahālakṣmī
When recited continuously, it will bring enormous glory
By offering a homa of whatever flowers are available
one will obtain great splendor and any girl one desires
By offering , homas of bdellium pills the size of a kernel of a cotton tree, smeared with the three sweet substances, o
, homas of lotuses, one will obtain a kingdom
Oṁ, Nandinī! You who grant boons! Kiṇi, kiṇi! Khiṇi, khiṇi! Give me splendor! Vauṣaṭ
Oṁ, Jambhā! Mohā! Svāhā
This king of mantras brings the fulfillment of wishes when one makes offerings of oleander flowers to the venerable Tārā and recites the mantra , times for each syllable
Oṁ, Vasudharā, svāhā! Oṁ, Śrīvasu, svāhā! Oṁ, Vasuśrī, svāhā! Oṁ, Vasumukhī, svāhā! Oṁ, Vasumatiśrī, svāhā
One should imagine oneself in the form of Jambhala
and visualize in one’s heart, in the center of a moon disk
the goddess Vasudharā, who is of golden color, has two arms, and is adorned with all adornments
In the four directions, starting with the east, she is surrounded by four goddesses
Her right hand is in a boon-granting gesture
and in her left she is holding grain and a cluster of blossoms
Visualizing her like this will bring fulfillment of one’s wishes
One should draw a four-sided maṇḍala with cow dung, two hands in diameter
and offer sweet-smelling flowers in the three periods of the day
When one has done , recitations
one’s wishes will become fulfilled within six months
By offering , homas of whatever flowers may be available
one will obtain great splendor
By reciting the mantra , times for each syllable, one will ensure great splendor
After offering , homas of bdellium pills
one’s wishes will come true
Oṁ, Vasudharā, give such-and-such girl to me! Cause her to be given to me! Svāhā
one should bathe and, while in the water
Then one will obtain the girl one desires
At night, one should do a homa offering , times with the wood of a milk tree, including [in the mantra] the name of a village
recite this mantra , times
Then one will obtain that village
Oṁ Vasudharā, svāhā! Oṁ, svāhā to Candrakāntī! Oṁ, svāhā to Dattā! Oṁ, svāhā to Vasudattā! Oṁ, svāhā to Āryā! Oṁ, svāhā to Subhadrā! Oṁ, svāhā to Guptā! Oṁ, svāhā to Devī! Oṁ, svāhā to Sarasvatī
One should draw Vasudharā on a gold, silver, or copper leaf in the center of an eight-petaled lotus
On its petals, starting from the east, one should draw the great yakṣiṇīs, Candrakāntī, and so forth
By following the same procedures as previously described, one will accomplish the tasks previously described
In the center
Oṁ, svāhā to Jambhala, the lord of the waters
In the cardinal directions
Oṁ, svāhā to Maṇibhadra
Oṁ, svāhā to Pūrṇabhadra
Oṁ, svāhā to Dhanada
Oṁ, svāhā to Vaiśravaṇa
In the intermediate directions
Oṁ, svāhā to Kelimālin
Oṁ, svāhā to Vicitra­kuṇḍalin
Oṁ, svāhā to Sukhendra
Oṁ, svāhā to Carendra
The lord is surrounded by the eight great kings of the yakṣas
and accompanied by the goddess Vasudharā. He is of golden color
holding a mongoose and a citron
with a protruding belly
and adorned with all the jewel ornaments
The yakṣa lords, for their part, are accompanied by the yakṣiṇīs mentioned
to those who meditate, make offerings during the three periods of the day, and recite the mantras
The lord can even grant the rulership of the three world
or to those who offer eight hundred handfuls of water. One who recites this early in the morning, before crows start to caw, while standing in water
will have an inexhaustible accumulation of wealth
Alternatively, on a golden plate one should engrave Vasudharā surrounded by the yakṣiṇīs, and on a second plate Lord Jambhala surrounded by the yakṣas
One should join them together an
Then the lord will grant the eight great siddhis
not to mention other siddhis
This was the second chapter in the Great Sovereign Tantra of Siddhaikavīra
Oṁ, Vajratīkṣṇa! You who cut through suffering! The embodiment of wisdom and knowledge! The body of knowledge, Vāgīśvara— Homage to Arapacana
in the form of Lord Mañjuvajra Siddhaikavīra
One should visualize onesel
white like the light of the autumn moon
In his left hand he is holding a blue lotu
and his right hand is in the boon-granting gesture
He is the pure sphere of phenomena, shining forth from his primordially unborn nature
After twenty-one days one will obtain the speech of Sarasvatī
Within six months, one will accomplish Vāgīśvara
One will see Vāgīśvara right in front of oneself and remember everything one has heard
If, early in the morning, over the period of one month, one drinks half a tola of sweet flag, incanted  times, with milk, oil, or ghee
one will cur
stammering, or dumbness
one’s voice will become like that of a love-intoxicated cuckoo; and one’s speech will be distinct and sweet
After six months of practice, the treatises one has not heard will become clearly known, an
those that have been learned will not be forgotten
One will be able to retain whatever one has learned
Oṁ, Vākya! Homage to you
This is the heart mantra of the venerable Vāgīśvara
One who is practicing this mantra while absorbed in the samādhi described earlie
can accomplish all the tasks that were previously mentioned
One should gather , jasmine flower buds and descend into the waters of a great river flowing toward the ocean to where the water reaches up to one’s neck
Reciting this mantra, one should throw the buds, one by one, into the stream
Should any bud float against the stream
one should swallow it without touching it with one’s teeth
Then one will be granted the ability to remember everything that has been learned
Similarly, by offering , homas of any type of flower
one will become identical to Vāgīśvara
Early in the morning, one should prepare a maṇḍala disc using one cat’s paw of powdered pennywort and incant it  times
One should then make as many offerings to Lord Vāgīśvara as one can, an
drink the powder with ghee or fermented rice water
Within six months one will be able to remember whatever one has learned
one will be eloquent and have a sweet voice
This king of mantras will be mastered if one recites it , times for each syllable according to the procedure of the preliminary practice
Later, during a lunar eclipse or a solar eclipse
one should hold a sword wrought from fine iron in one’s hand
and recite the mantra while the moon is invisible, until it reappears
One will then become a vidyādhara of the sword
In the same way one may use the mantra to empower a wheel, a scepter, a trident, an arrow, a hammer, a noose, and so forth
One should prepare the substances for an eye ointment, a tika ointment, an ointment for the feet, a salve of enthrallment, etc., and empower them
One should fill up a dish with either milk or yogurt mixed with rice, together with ghee and sugar
One should recite the mantra while covering it with one’s hand  and then eat it
Then one will live for five hundred years
One should put some beans in one’s mouth and recite the mantra
one will become eloquent, learned, skilled in writing, and able to remember all that one has learned
If one offers , homas of lotuses
the lord will clearly appear before one
With , homas of bilva fruits
one will obtain the kingship of the triple universe
of whatever kind of flowers may be available
one will obtain mastery of speech
With , homa offerings of five types of grain smeared with ghee
one will be able to summon a yakṣiṇī or a girl from the pātāla
In the same way, one should offer five types of wood
Practiced continuously
will even lead to the state of awakening in this very lifetime
Oṁ hrīḥ hūṁ
This king of mantras will grant the same result
Oṁ, hrīḥ, Mahāmāyāṅgā! Homage to Mahāsarasvatī
This heart mantra of the venerable, noble Tārā accomplishes all actions
Reciting the mantra “Oṁ, all phenomena are pure by nature. I am pure by nature on both the outside and inside,
one should meditate that everything animate and inanimate, as well as oneself, is pure by nature
a white lotus seven hands in diameter, on top of it a moon disk
the goddess in all her splendor, one hand holding a lotus and the other displaying the boon-granting gesture
The nature of the Blessed Lady’s body is great compassion
She is there solely to benefit others
She delights in granting practitioners the siddhis they desire
She is white like the rays of the autumn moon, anointed with cream of white sandalwood, and beautifully adorned with flowers
in white garments; pearl necklaces
and many jewels adorn her body
She illuminates the endless and limitless world sphere with thousands of flashing light rays
She has the form of a twelve-year-old girl
One should visualize oneself thus in the form of Mahāsarasvatī
with Prajñā in front
Medhā to the right
Mati behind, an
Smṛti to the lef
each goddess beautiful, with the same characteristics as just described
Then, in the area of one’s navel
in the center of a moon disc
one should visualize a white syllable oṁ
visualizing its complete garland as the nature of speech emerging from the syllable oṁ in an unbroken stream
The follower of Mantra, with his mind wholly focused on this practic
will obtain the speech of Sarasvatī within one month
Within three months he will succeed even in the slaying of Brahmā
Within six months, he will become equal to Sarasvatī
goat’s milk, yellow myrobalan, the three hot substances
Pāṭhā, ugrā, drum-stick plant, and salt
ghee Incanted seven time
And one pala of each of the ingredients mentioned previously
one prastha of ghe
Slowly, on a low fire
If one consumes it for just one mont
One will obtain an unsurpassable gift of language
After a preliminary practice of six months
One will attain the state of Vāgīśvara
One will master language by lickin
Sweet flag, licorice, spiked ginger lily, siṃhī
Pathyā, nāgara, and dīpaka
Together with costus, kaṇa, and cumin
Early in the morning, one should make offerings to the goddess With fragrant flowers and so forth
By eating the above ingredients, incanted seven times
One will become able, within six months, to remember what one hears
Within three months one will become a master of speech
And within one month one becomes an intelligent person
One will have a sweet voice Like a cucko
Himalayan yellow myrobala
And Himalayan sweet flag
Early in the morning one should incant seven time
one will become an intelligent person, A master of language with a beautiful voice, and full of knowledge
Within six month
one will be able to remember Everything that one has learned
Oṁ, Vāgvādinī, grant me the gift of speech! Sarasvatī! Mahāśvetā! Svāhā
This heart mantra of the Great White Goddess born from a lotu
accomplishes all the tasks described previously
Oṁ, Arkamālinī! Kiṇi kiṇi! Khiṇi khiṇi! Svāhā
holds a book that embodies all statements
and brandishes the sword of wisdom in his right hand
One should visualize oneself as the youthful lord Mañjuvajr
In front of him, one should visualize the sunlight-garlanded Mahāsarasvatī; behind him, Mahāśrī; to his right, Keśinī; and to his left, Upakeśinī
One should visualize them as white like the autumn moo
While resting in this visualization one should first make offerings to the best of one’s abilit
and then recite this mantra , times following the procedures of the preliminary practice as already described
Then, one should incant one pala of Sarasvatī’s ghee or pennywort ghee
Next, one should visualize that Sarasvatī offers this substance to oneself with her hand
Absorbed in samādhi, one should drink it
Here is the recipe for this ghee mixed with pennywort
With the juice of pennywort and milk
Turmeric, jasmine
and turpeth, Together with yellow myrobalan
One should use one pala of each of these
And cook it slowly on a low fire
Then, by merely eating i
One will attain an unequalled purity of speech
By doing this for seven days
One’s voice will equal the kiṃnaras
By doing this for three months
One will excel in being able to remember whatever one hears
Within six months one will become, in reality, Equal to Vāgīśvara
One will conquer the eighteen types of leprosy And the seven types of tuberculosis
Oṁ, homage to Mañjuśrī who has the infinite splendor of knowledge
One should visualize oneself in the form of Vāgīśvara, surrounded by the four goddesses as described before
and recite the mantra according to the procedure previously set out
Then one will be able to perform all the rites already mentioned
Oṁ, Arapacana, dhīḥ! Svāhā
In an isolated place, one should draw a maṇḍala an
make offerings to the blessed Vāgīśvara and to one’s precious guru
Then, one should sit on a comfortable seat and arouse the mind set upon awakening
“Oṁ, all phenomena are pure by nature; I am pure by nature,
one should recite three times the mantr
and, considering oneself and everything else to be naturally pure
bring emptiness directly to mind
One should then visualize oneself, instantaneously arisen, upon a white lotus and a moon disk; one is white in color, holding a book and a sword
On the right side of oneself as Vāgīśvara is Keśinī, an
on one’s left, Upakeśinī
astride a sun disk and holding a blue lotus
Behind, one should visualize Candraprabha, astride a moon disk and holding a blue lotus
Then, in one’s heart, one should visualize the syllable a, radiating blazing streams of light
which is then transformed into an eight-spoked wheel, extremely ornate as it is the nature of the complete range of speech
One should vizualize the wheel clearly and consider that it is rapidly revolving
Practicing in this way
one will come to know all the treatises clearly within six months as regards both their meaning and composition, even if one has never heard them before
After one year, one will become equal to Vāgīśvara
This was the method of the wheel of Arapacana
Oṁ, Vāgīśvara, mu
All the results mentioned previously will come to the person who recites this mantra
One should visualize, in the center of a circle, the syllable muḥ surrounded by a garland of flames
This is called the circle of wisdom procedure
Oṁ, Vāgīśvara of the sphere of phenomena, muḥ! Svāhā
In the same order as just described, one should imagine oneself as having the nature of the five deities
Then, one should visualize a sixteen-spoked wheel with the syllable muḥ in its center
To those who visualize this or an eight-spoked wheel will come the results previously mentioned
Oṁ, Vajratīkṣṇa, the boon giver, muḥ! Svāhā
One should visualize oneself as the syllable muḥ. Then, as it transforms, one instantaneously becomes Vāgīśvara, the sole hero, who, like a blazing fire, illuminates the entire environment
n one’s heart one should visualize the syllable oṁ, which is then transformed into a sun disk that illuminates all worlds, shining with a hundred thousand rays
By meditating thus, within six months the practitioner will become equal to Vāgīśvara an
will obtain all the results previously described
This was the third chapter in the Great Sovereign Tantra of Siddhaikavīra
Oṁ, Lavaṇāmbha! You are fierce! You are vast! O terrifying one! Burn the limbs of such-and-such! Burn his flesh! Burn his skin! Burn even his nails! Burn his bones and the marrow in his bones! He cuts the salt, breaks the salt, and cooks the salt. When the salt of the earth is being seized, how could one sleep, how could one find pleasure? If such-and-such dwells a hundred leagues away, behind a hundred rivers, in a city surrounded by iron walls and protected by cobras—at that very place, enthrall that person, having first bound the salt. Oṁ, ciṭi, ciṭi! Vikloli! Please bring here such-and-such a person! Svāhā
As a preliminary practice, one should perform , recitations before commencing the sādhana practice
the noble lord Avalokiteśvara, standing beneath a blossoming aśoka tree
He is red in color and wears red garlands, red clothes, jewelry, and unguents
in his four arms he holds a noose, a goad, a bow, and an arrow
He has a distinctively erotic appearanc
He is accompanied by two goddesses, Tārā and Bhṛkuṭī, who stand to his right and left respectively
one should visualize oneself a
one should offer, in the three periods of the day,  homa offerings of salt
After seven days, one will succeed in enthralling a man or a woman
After twenty-one days, one will be able to enthrall an eminent person
One should make an effigy from beeswax mixed with salt in the shape of the target person, four fingers in size
Then one should heat up that effigy at the three junctions of the day above the smokeless embers of cutch tree wood while saying the mantra aloud
Whoever’s name is included in the mantra, that person will become enthralled
One should give the target salt mixed with vajra water after incanting it  times
Then the target will become enthralled simply by drinking it
Oṁ, Lavaṇāmbha! You are fierce! You are vast! You touch the heart! The heart of such-and-such a person is drunk. There is no physician in the world for this. Oṁ, ciṭi, ciṭi! Vikloli, vikloli! Mahāvikloli, mahāvikloli! Please enthrall such-and-such a person for me! Svāhā
Having completed the procedure of the preliminary practice as before
one should drink three handfuls of incanted water with salt in the three periods of the day. Whoever’s name one includes, that person will become enthralled
One should mix equal amounts of salt and black mustard seed and offer them in a homa offering. Whoever’s name is used in the offering, that person will become enthralled
Oṁ, svāhā to Kurukullā
This is the heart mantra of the venerable noble Tārā
Its invincible power in the activity of enthralling the three worlds is known far and wide
One should, while absorbed in the absorption mentioned previously
recite the mantra , times for each syllable
Later, the person to whom one gives flowers, incense, unguents, fragrant powders, or betel will become enthralled
By censing oneself with a pleasant-smelling incense
one will be adored by everyone
If one offers a homa of red flowers, the person whose name one uses in the homa will become enthralled
If one incants food and drink, whoever it is given to will become enthralled
To enthrall an important person
one should offer white mustard seeds in the fire
Later, on an auspicious lunar day, during an auspicious asterism, etc.
one should make offerings to her, the Blessed One
on birchbark or cloth using saffron, bovine orpiment, resin, etc
Then one should draw a circle with sixteen divisions in the form of a lotus with petals
In the center of the circle, one should write both the name of the target and that of the practitioner
On the petals
one should write the four syllables ku ru ku llā in combination with the target’s name only
On the outside
one should surround this with a threefold circle of oṁ syllables using a red cord an
insert the drawing into the heart of an effigy made of beeswax
Then, while heating up the effigy over the embers of cutch tree wood at the three junctions of the day
one should draw the effigy’s feet toward oneself
Whether one is enthralling a man or a woman
one should pierce the feet with a copper needle and heat them
The target will become enthralled
One should visualize the wind maṇḍala arisen from the syllable yaṁ
Above it
one should visualize the target with disheveled hair, naked, and with a noose tied around his neck
One should pull him by the chest with a hook an
draw him by means of the mantra which has the force of the wind
As he is visualized prostrate at the practitioner’s feet, all that one wants from him can be accomplished
With dedicated practice
One should place the mantra in the center of a bowl of ghee, honey, and sugar-candy and
in the three periods of the day, offer flowers and other things to it while reciting the mantra
Then one will enthrall whomever one wishes
One should make a lamp wick with fibers of white lotus and put lampblack into a dish of unbaked clay along with clarified butter from a brown cow
By applying this lampblack, incanted  times, to one’s eyes, one will be adored by everyone
one should collect lampblack from a wick made of white lotus fibers burning inside a human skull with human fat. This should be done at night on the eighth or the fourteenth day of the waning moon
By anointing one’s eyes with this lampblack, one will be adored by everyone
In the pure and stainless saffron, you are bound by your pledge. The god rains raindrops, raindrops, as he pleases. He sends lightning and thunder. O amazing great king! May he bring prosperity and growth! Hūṁ!  O god of comets and planets, I now offer an oblation to gods, humans, and gandharvas, for the seizing, the coming, and the traversing of happiness, svāhā
With this king of mantras one should perform the preliminary ritual
Then, in the center of a house yard, one should smear cow dung and delineate the altar space
One should spread darbha grass there and set it alight
Next, one should take  flowers of the giant milkweed shrub and
repeating the mantra, offer the flowers one by one in the fire
Then one summons the woman or man one desires
An intelligent person, knowing what is described here, should treat it with respect
This was the fourth chapter in the Great Sovereign Tantra of Siddhaikavīra
Translated by the great Indian preceptor Dīpaṃkara Śrījñāna and the translator monk Géwai Lodrö
finalized by the monk Tsultrim Gyalwa